10021369	Identification of APC2, a homologue of the adenomatous polyposis coli tumour suppressor.	The adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumour-suppressor protein controls the Wnt signalling pathway by forming a complex with glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta), axin/conductin and betacatenin. Complex formation induces the rapid degradation of betacatenin. In colon carcinoma cells, loss of APC leads to the accumulation of betacatenin in the nucleus, where it binds to and activates the Tcf-4 transcription factor (reviewed in [1] [2]). Here, we report the identification and genomic structure of APC homologues. Mammalian APC2, which closely resembles APC in overall domain structure, was functionally analyzed and shown to contain two SAMP domains, both of which are required for binding to conductin. Like APC, APC2 regulates the formation of active betacatenin-Tcf complexes, as demonstrated using transient transcriptional activation assays in APC -/- colon carcinoma cells. Human APC2 maps to chromosome 19p13. 3. APC and APC2 may therefore have comparable functions in development and cancer.
7574457	Overexpression of DM20 messenger RNA in two brothers with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease.	Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is a rare, sex-linked recessive, dysmyelinating disease of the central nervous system that has been associated with mutations in the myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) gene. Only 25% of patients studied with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease have exonic mutations in this gene, the underlying cause of the disease in the remaining patients is unknown. The PLP gene encodes two major alternatively spliced transcripts called PLP and DM20. PLP messenger RNA is specifically expressed in central nervous system tissue, whereas DM20 messenger RNA is found in central nervous system, cardiac, and other tissues. We studied cultured skin fibroblasts from 2 brothers with Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease who exhibited no detectable exonic mutation of the PLP gene. Examination of RNA from these cells showed that the level of DM20 messenger RNA is elevated sixfold relative to male control skin fibroblasts. An unrelated female carrier, also with no detectable exonic mutation, showed a threefold increase in DM20 messenger RNA in cultured skin fibroblasts. Our findings suggest that in some patients, Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease is caused by overexpression of PLP gene transcripts, and that in these families a 50% increase of DM20 messenger RNA in females, relative to the increase in affected males, can identify a female carrier.
1676565	Carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis of Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease using a combination of anonymous DNA polymorphisms and the proteolipid protein (PLP) gene cDNA.	We report carrier identification and a prenatal diagnosis using DNA polymorphisms in 2 families with X-linked Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD). In both families, the proteolipid protein (PLP) gene in the single affected male could be traced back to his unaffected maternal grandfather. Therefore, each family contains a new mutation. In the case of the prenatal diagnosis, the fetus was shown by cytogenetic analysis to be a female, who we predict will be a noncarrier of PMD based on her genotype with the PLP intragenic polymorphism.
10208848	Fabry disease: identification of novel alpha-galactosidase A mutations and molecular carrier detection by use of fluorescent chemical cleavage of mismatches.	Fabry disease (FD) (angiokeratoma corporis diffusum) is an X-linked inborn error of glycosphingolipid metabolism caused by defects in the lysosomal alpha-galactosidase A gene (GLA). The enzymatic defect leads to the systemic accumulation of neutral glycosphingolipids with terminal alpha-galactosyl moieties. Clinically, affected hemizygous males have angiokeratoma, severe acroparesthesia, renal failure, and vasculopathy of the heart and brain. While demonstration of alpha-galactosidase deficiency in leukocytes is diagnostic in affected males, enzymatic detection of female carriers is often inconclusive, due to random X-chromosomal inactivation, underlining the need of molecular investigations for accurate genetic counseling. By use of chemical cleavage of mismatches adapted to fluorescence-based detection systems, we have characterized the mutations underlying alpha-Gal A deficiency in 16 individuals from six unrelated families with FD. The mutational spectrum included five missense mutations (C202W, C223G, N224D, R301Q, and Q327K) and one splice-site mutation [IVS3 G (-1) -- > C]. Studies at the mRNA level showed that the latter led to altered pre-mRNA splicing with consequent alteration of the mRNA translational reading frame and generation of a premature termination codon of translation. By use of this strategy, carrier status was accurately assessed in all seven at-risk females tested, whereas enzymatic dosages failed to diagnose or exclude heterozygosity.
7811247	X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD): a novel mutation of the ALD gene in 6 members of a family presenting with 5 different phenotypes.	Fragments of the adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) cDNA from a patient with adolescent ALD were amplified by polymerase chain reaction and subcloned. Bidirectional sequencing of the entire coding ALD gene disclosed a cytosine to guanine transversion at nucleotide 1451 in exon five, resulting in substitution of proline 484 by arginine. Five of nine siblings of the patient, comprising two cerebral ALD, one adrenomyeloneuropathy, one Addison only as well as the symptomatic mother (all accumulating very long chain fatty acids) carried this mutation, which was not found in the unaffected persons, in five unrelated ALD patients, and in twenty controls. We propose that this missense mutation generated the disease per se as well as the metabolic defect; the different phenotypes, however, must have originated by means of additional pathogenetic factors.
6524872	Adrenoleukodystrophy: survey of 303 cases: biochemistry, diagnosis, and therapy.	Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is a genetically determined disorder associated with progressive central demyelination and adrenal cortical insufficiency. All affected persons show increased levels of saturated unbranched very-long-chain fatty acids, particularly hexacosanoate (C26  0), because of impaired capacity to degrade these acids. This degradation normally takes place in a subcellular organelle called the peroxisome, and ALD, together with Zellwegers cerebrohepatorenal syndrome, is now considered to belong to the newly formed category of peroxisomal disorders. Biochemical assays permit prenatal diagnosis, as well as identification of most heterozygotes. We have identified 303 patients with ALD in 217 kindreds. These patients show a wide phenotypic variation. Sixty percent of patients had childhood ALD and 17% adrenomyeloneuropathy, both of which are X-linked, with the gene mapped to Xq28. Neonatal ALD, a distinct entity with autosomal recessive inheritance and points of resemblance to Zellwegers syndrome, accounted for 7% of the cases. Although excess C26  0 in the brain of patients with ALD is partially of dietary origin, dietary C26  0 restriction did not produce clear benefit. Bone marrow transplant lowered the plasma C26  0 level but failed to arrest neurological progression.
10083734	Molecular epidemiology of C9 deficiency heterozygotes with an Arg95Stop mutation of the C9 gene in Japan.	Deficiency of the ninth component of human complement (C9) is the most common complement deficiency in Japan, with an incidence of approximately one homozygote in 1000, but is very rare in other countries. Genetic analyses of Japanese C9 deficiency have shown that a C-to-T transition leading to TGA stop codon for Arg95 in exon 4 of the C9 gene (Arg95Stop) is common in Japanese C9 deficiency. To determine the prevalence of heterozygous carriers of the Arg95Stop mutation in a Japanese population, we collected DNA samples from 300 individuals in two of the four main islands of Japan. Heterozygote detection was performed with an allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) system designed to detect exclusively only one of the normal and mutant alleles, followed by confirmation with PCR/single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis and direct sequencing. Twenty individuals were heterozygous for the Arg95Stop mutation. None was homozygous. The prevalence of carriers of the Arg95Stop mutation was 6. 7% (20/300). An estimated frequency (0. 12%) of complete C9 deficiency due to homozygous Arg95Stop mutation was consistent with frequencies determined by serological studies.
10077614	A zinc finger truncation of murine WT1 results in the characteristic urogenital abnormalities of Denys-Drash syndrome .	The Wilms tumor -suppressor gene, WT1, plays a key role in urogenital development, and WT1 dysfunction is implicated in both neoplastic (Wilms tumor, mesothelioma, leukemias, and breast cancer) and nonneoplastic (glomerulosclerosis) disease. The analysis of diseases linked specifically with WT1 mutations, such as Denys-Drash syndrome (DDS), can provide valuable insight concerning the role of WT1 in development and disease. DDS is a rare childhood disease characterized by a nephropathy involving mesangial sclerosis, XY pseudohermaphroditism, and/or Wilms tumor (WT). DDS patients are constitutionally heterozygous for exonic point mutations in WT1, which include mutations predicted to truncate the protein within the C-terminal zinc finger (ZF) region. We report that heterozygosity for a targeted murine Wt1 allele, Wt1 (tmT396), which truncates ZF3 at codon 396, induces mesangial sclerosis characteristic of DDS in adult heterozygous and chimeric mice. Male genital defects also were evident and there was a single case of Wilms tumor in which the transcript of the nontargeted allele showed an exon 9 skipping event, implying a causal link between Wt1 dysfunction and Wilms tumorigenesis in mice. However, the mutant WT1 (tmT396) protein accounted for only 5% of WT1 in both heterozygous embryonic stem cells and the WT. This has implications regarding the mechanism by which the mutant allele exerts its effect.
1682919	PRAD1, a candidate BCL1 oncogene: mapping and expression in centrocytic lymphoma.	Rearrangement of the BCL1 (B-cell lymphoma 1) region on chromosome 11q13 appears to be highly characteristic of centrocytic lymphoma and also is found infrequently in other B-cell neoplasms. Rearrangement is thought to deregulate a nearby protooncogene, but transcribed sequences in the immediate vicinity of BCL1 breakpoints had not been identified. PRAD1, previously designated D11S287E, was identified on 11q13 as a chromosomal breakpoint region rearranged with the parathyroid hormone gene in a subset of parathyroid adenomas; this highly conserved putative oncogene, which encodes a novel cyclin, has been linked to BCL1 and implicated also in subsets of breast and squamous cell neoplasms with 11q13 amplification. We report pulsed-field gel electrophoresis data showing BCL1 and PRAD1 to be no more than 130 kilobases apart. PRAD1 mRNA is abundantly expressed in seven of seven centrocytic lymphomas (Kiel classification), in contrast to 13 closely related but noncentrocytic lymphomas. Three of the seven centrocytic lymphomas had detectable BCL1 DNA rearrangement. Also, two unusual cases of CLL with BCL1 rearrangement overexpressed PRAD1, in contrast to five CLL controls. Thus, PRAD1 is an excellent candidate " BCL1 oncogene. " Its overexpression may be a key consequence of rearrangement of the BCL1 vicinity in B-cell neoplasms and a unifying pathogenetic feature in centrocytic lymphoma.
2963536	Inherited C3 deficiency with recurrent infections and glomerulonephritis.	A 10-year-old Laotian boy had homozygous deficiency of the third component of complement and recurrent bacterial infections beginning at age 5 months. Cellular and humoral immunity were normal, as were polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemotaxis and bactericidal activities. Serum complement-mediated hemolytic, chemotactic, and opsonic activities were deficient. In vitro addition of purified C3 to patient serum restored hemolytic complement to normal levels, and plasma infusion during each of four episodes of pneumonia significantly enhanced serum opsonic activity for as long as 36 hours. A renal biopsy specimen revealed mesangiopathic glomerulonephritis, although significant levels of circulating IgG immune complexes were not detected. These findings further support the association of C3 deficiency with immune-complex disease and suggest that plasma infusion may be an adjunct to antibiotic therapy in the management of severe pyogenic infections in patients with C3 deficiency.
3678494	Nebulin and titin expression in Duchenne muscular dystrophy appears normal.	Monoclonal antibodies which recognize different epitopes on either titin or nebulin show normal staining patterns on frozen sections of three muscle biopsies of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting performed on two of these muscle biopsies show the normal pattern of titin and nebulin polypeptides. Since the donor of one of these biopsies has a large deletion of the 5-region of the DMD gene, our results argue against the recent proposal that nebulin is the gene mutated in DMD.
10677309	ATM-heterozygous germline mutations contribute to breast cancer-susceptibility.	Approximately 0. 5% -1% of the general population has been estimated to be heterozygous for a germline mutation in the ATM gene. Mutations in the ATM gene are responsible for the autosomal recessive disorder ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) (MIM 208900). The finding that ATM-heterozygotes have an increased relative risk for breast cancer was supported by some studies but not confirmed by others. In view of this discrepancy, we examined the frequency of ATM germline mutations in a selected group of Dutch patients with breast cancer. We have analyzed ATM germline mutations in normal blood lymphocytes, using the protein-truncation test followed by genomic-sequence analysis. A high percentage of ATM germline mutations was demonstrated among patients with sporadic breast cancer. The 82 patients included in this study had developed breast cancer at age < 45 and had survived >/= 5 years (mean 15 years), and in 33 (40%) of the patients a contralateral breast tumor had been diagnosed. Among these patients we identified seven (8. 5%) ATM germline mutations, of which five are distinct. One splice-site mutation (IVS10-6T-- > G) was detected three times in our series. Four heterozygous carriers were patients with bilateral breast cancer. Our results indicate that the mutations identified in this study are " A-T disease-causing " mutations that might be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer in heterozygotes. We conclude that ATM heterozygotes have an approximately ninefold-increased risk of developing a type of breast cancer characterized by frequent bilateral occurrence, early age at onset, and long-term survival. The specific characteristics of our population of patients may explain why such a high frequency was not found in other series.
10417286	Linkage analysis in a large Brazilian family with van der Woude syndrome suggests the existence of a susceptibility locus for cleft palate at 17p11.2-11.1.	van der Woude syndrome (VWS), which has been mapped to 1q32-41, is characterized by pits and/or sinuses of the lower lip, cleft lip/palate (CL/P), cleft palate (CP), bifid uvula, and hypodontia (H). The expression of VWS, which has incomplete penetrance, is highly variable. Both the occurrence of CL/P and CP within the same genealogy and a recurrence risk < 40% for CP among descendants with VWS have suggested that the development of clefts in this syndrome is influenced by modifying genes at other loci. To test this hypothesis, we have conducted linkage analysis in a large Brazilian kindred with VWS, considering as affected the individuals with CP, regardless of whether it is associated with other clinical signs of VWS. Our results suggest that a gene at 17p11. 2-11 2-11. 1, together with the VWS gene at 1p32-41, enhances the probability of CP in an individual carrying the two at-risk genes. If this hypothesis is confirmed in other VWS pedigrees, it will represent one of the first examples of a gene, mapped through linkage analysis, which modifies the expression of a major gene.
2215607	Increased high-density lipoprotein levels caused by a common cholesteryl-ester transfer protein gene mutation.	BACKGROUND AND METHODS. The plasma cholesteryl-ester transfer protein (CETP) catalyzes the transfer of cholesteryl esters from high-density lipoprotein (HDL) to other lipoproteins. We recently described a Japanese family with increased HDL levels and CETP deficiency due to a splicing defect of the CETP gene. To assess the frequency and phenotype of this condition, we screened 11 additional families with high HDL levels by means of a radioimmunoassay for CETP and DNA analysis. RESULTS. We found the same CETP gene mutation in four families from three different regions of Japan. Analysis of restriction-fragment-length polymorphisms of the mutant CETP allele showed that all probands were homozygous for the identical haplotype. Family members homozygous for CETP deficiency (n = 10) had moderate hypercholesterolemia (mean total cholesterol level [+/- SD], 7. 01 +/- 0. 83 mmol per liter), markedly increased levels of HDL cholesterol (4. 24 +/- 1. 01 mmol per liter) and apolipoprotein A-I, and decreased levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (1. 99 +/- 0. 80 mmol per liter) and apolipoprotein B. Members heterozygous for the deficiency (n = 20), whose CETP levels were in the lower part of the normal range, had moderately increased levels of HDL cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I and an increased ratio of HDL subclass 2 to HDL subclass 3, as compared with unaffected family members (1. 5 +/- 0. 8 vs. 0. 7 +/- 0. 4). CETP deficiency was not found in six unrelated subjects with elevated HDL cholesterol levels who were from different parts of the United States. CONCLUSIONS. CETP deficiency appears to be a frequent cause of increased HDL levels in the population of Japan, possibly because of a founder effect. The results that we observed in heterozygotes suggest that CETP normally plays a part in the regulation of levels of HDL subclass 2. There was no evidence of premature atherosclerosis in the families with CETP deficiency. In fact, the lipoprotein profile of persons with CETP deficiency is potentially antiatherogenic and may be associated with an increased life span.
3162536	Mild and severe muscular dystrophy associated with deletions in Xp21 of the human X chromosome.	We have analysed over 300 patients suffering from Duchenne or Becker muscular dystrophy (DMD or BMD). Deletions have been characterised which encompass either the pERT87 (DXS164) locus only, the XJ1. 1 (DXS206) and HIP25 loci only, or all three loci. These loci have been shown to lie within the DMD region covering several hundred kilobases (kb) of DNA. One mildly affected BMD patient possesses a deletion of at least 110 kb including exons of the DMD gene. Other patients with similar exon deletions, or smaller deletions, show the more severe phenotype typical of DMD. We conclude from these studies that the severity of the clinical phenotype cannot be explained on the basis of the size of the deletion. We discuss this in the context of candidate gene sequences.
8441467	Putative X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy gene shares unexpected homology with ABC transporters.	Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is an X-linked disease affecting 1/20, 000 males either as cerebral ALD in childhood or as adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN) in adults. Childhood ALD is the more severe form, with onset of neurological symptoms between 5-12 years of age. Central nervous system demyelination progresses rapidly and death occurs within a few years. AMN is a milder form of the disease with onset at 15-30 years of age and a more progressive course. Adrenal insufficiency (Addisons disease) may remain the only clinical manifestation of ALD. The principal biochemical abnormality of ALD is the accumulation of very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA) because of impaired beta-oxidation in peroxisomes. The normal oxidation of VLCFA-CoA in patients fibroblasts suggested that the gene coding for the VLCFA-CoA synthetase could be a candidate gene for ALD. Here we use positional cloning to identify a gene partially deleted in 6 of 85 independent patients with ALD. In familial cases, the deletions segregated with the disease. An identical deletion was detected in two brothers presenting with different clinical ALD phenotypes. Candidate exons were identified by computer analysis of genomic sequences and used to isolate complementary DNAs by exon connection and screening of cDNA libraries. The deduced protein sequence shows significant sequence identity to a peroxisomal membrane protein of M (r) 70K that is involved in peroxisome biogenesis and belongs to the ATP-binding cassette superfamily of transporters.
10470088	The type of somatic mutation at APC in familial adenomatous polyposis is determined by the site of the germline mutation: a new facet to Knudson's 'two-hit' hypothesis.	APC is often cited as a prime example of a tumor suppressor gene. Truncating germline and somatic mutations (or, infrequently, allelic loss) occur in tumors in FAP (familial adenomatous polyposis). Most sporadic colorectal cancers also have two APC mutations. Clues from attenuated polyposis, missense germline variants with mild disease and the somatic mutation cluster region (codons 1, 250-1, 450) indicate, however, that APC mutations might not result in simple loss of protein function. We have found that FAP patients with germline APC mutations within a small region (codons 1, 194-1, 392 at most) mainly show allelic loss in their colorectal adenomas, in contrast to other FAP patients, whose second hits tend to occur by truncating mutations in the mutation cluster region. Our results indicate that different APC mutations provide cells with different selective advantages, with mutations close to codon 1, 300 providing the greatest advantage. Allelic loss is selected strongly in cells with one mutation near codon 1, 300. A different germline-somatic APC mutation association exists in FAP desmoids. APC is not, therefore, a classical tumor suppressor. Our findings also indicate a new mechanism for disease severity  if a broader spectrum of mutations is selected in tumors, the somatic mutation rate is effectively higher and more tumors grow.
2562820	Linkage analysis of the apolipoprotein C2 gene and myotonic dystrophy on human chromosome 19 reveals linkage disequilibrium in a French-Canadian population.	The gene for human apolipoprotein C2 (APOC2), situated on the proximal long arm of chromosome 19, is closely linked to the gene for the most common form of adult muscular dystrophy, myotonic dystrophy (DM). Six APOC2 RFLPs (TaqI, BglI, BanI, BamHI, NcoI, and AvaII) have been identified to date. We have conducted a comprehensive DM linkage study utilizing all six RFLPs and involving 50 families and 372 individuals. The most informative RFLPs are, in descending order, NcoI (lod = 6. 64, theta = 0. 05), BglI (lod = 6. 12, theta = 0. 05), AvaII (lod = 6. 02, theta = 0. 03), BanI (lod = 5. 76, theta = 0. 04), TaqI (lod = 4. 29, theta = 0. 06), and BamHI (lod = 1. 75, theta = 0. 01). A substantial increase in the lod scores over those seen with the individual RFLPs was obtained when the linkage of the entire APOC2 haplotype (composed of the six RFLPs) was studied (lod = 17. 87, theta = 0. 04). We have observed significant inter-APOC2 RFLP linkage disequilibrium. Consequently, the three most informative RFLPs have been found to be BanI, TaqI, and either BglI, AvaII, or NcoI polymorphisms. We also demonstrate linkage disequilibrium between DM and APOC2 in our French-Canadian population (standardized disequilibrium constant phi =. 22, chi 2 = 5. 12, df = 1, P less than 0. 04). This represents the first evidence of linkage disequilibrium between APOC2 and the DM locus.
10094552	A retrospective anonymous pilot study in screening newborns for HFE mutations in Scandinavian populations.	We have retrospectively analyzed 837 random anonymized dried blood spot (DBS) samples from neonatal screening programs in Scandinavia for mutations in HFE, the candidate gene for hemochromatosis. We have found C282Y allele frequencies of 2. 3% (+ 2. 0%) (-1. 3%) in Greenland, 4. 5% +/-1. 9% in Iceland, 5. 1% +/-2. 3% in the Faeroe Islands, and 8. 2% +/-2. 7% in Denmark. The high prevalence of HFE mutations in Denmark suggests that population screening for the C282Y mutation could be highly advantageous in terms of preventive health care. Long-term follow-up evaluation of C282Y homozygotes and H63D/C282Y compound heterozygotes will give an indication of the penetrance of the mutations.
1324223	Eight novel inactivating germ line mutations at the APC gene identified by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.	Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a dominantly inherited condition predisposing to colorectal cancer. The recent isolation of the responsible gene (adenomatous polyposis coli or APC) has facilitated the search for germ line mutations in affected individuals. Previous authors have used the RNase protection assay and the single-strand conformation polymorphisms procedure to screen for mutations. In this study we used denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). DGGE analysis of 10 APC exons (4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, and part of 15) in 33 unrelated Dutch FAP patients has led to the identification of eight novel germ line mutations resulting in stop codons or frameshifts. The results reported here indicate that (1) familial adenomatous polyposis is caused by an extremely heterogeneous spectrum of point mutations; (2) all the mutations found in this study are chain terminating; and (3) DGGE represents a rapid and sensitive technique for the detection of mutations in the unusually large APC gene. An extension of the DGGE analysis to the entire coding region in a sufficient number of clinically well-characterized, unrelated patients will facilitate the establishment of genotype-phenotype correlations. On the other hand, the occurrence of an extremely heterogeneous spectrum of mutations spread throughout the entire length of the large APC gene among the FAP patients indicates that this approach may not be useful as a rapid presymptomatic diagnostic procedure in a routine laboratory. Nevertheless, the above DGGE approach has incidentally led to the identification of a common polymorphism in exon 13. Such intragenic polymorphisms offer a practical approach to a more rapid procedure for presymptomatic diagnosis of FAP by linkage analysis in informative families.
102474	Combined genetic deficiency of C6 and C7 in man.	By routine screening of sera, a subject was discovered who showed a sub-total deficiency of C6 and C7. No clinical disease was associated with this deficiency which was transmitted through the subjects family as a single genetic characteristic, the C6 deficiency being associated with a silent allele at the structural locus. The propositus was found to have low quantities of an abnormal C6 which was both antigenically deficient and smaller in size than normal C6 (110, 000 daltons compared with 140, 000 daltons) and small quantities of apparently normal C7. It is concluded that the most likely explanation for this defect is that the subject has a structural mutation in his C6 gene which produces hyopsynthesis not only of C6 but also of the closely linked gene for C7. These findings suggest the possibility that C6 and C7 may function as a single genetic unit and that the primary transcript copied from the genome includes information for both proteins.
10930361	Iron-dependent self-assembly of recombinant yeast frataxin: implications for Friedreich ataxia.	Frataxin deficiency is the primary cause of Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), an autosomal recessive cardiodegenerative and neurodegenerative disease. Frataxin is a nuclear-encoded mitochondrial protein that is widely conserved among eukaryotes. Genetic inactivation of the yeast frataxin homologue (Yfh1p) results in mitochondrial iron accumulation and hypersensitivity to oxidative stress. Increased iron deposition and evidence of oxidative damage have also been observed in cardiac tissue and cultured fibroblasts from patients with FRDA. These findings indicate that frataxin is essential for mitochondrial iron homeostasis and protection from iron-induced formation of free radicals. The functional mechanism of frataxin, however, is still unknown. We have expressed the mature form of Yfh1p (mYfh1p) in Escherichia coli and have analyzed its function in vitro. Isolated mYfh1p is a soluble monomer (13, 783 Da) that contains no iron and shows no significant tendency to self-associate. Aerobic addition of ferrous iron to mYfh1p results in assembly of regular spherical multimers with a molecular mass of approximately 1. 1 MDa (megadaltons) and a diameter of 13 +/-2 nm. Each multimer consists of approximately 60 subunits and can sequester > 3, 000 atoms of iron. Titration of mYfh1p with increasing iron concentrations supports a stepwise mechanism of multimer assembly. Sequential addition of an iron chelator and a reducing agent results in quantitative iron release with concomitant disassembly of the multimer, indicating that mYfh1p sequesters iron in an available form. In yeast mitochondria, native mYfh1p exists as monomer and a higher-order species with a molecular weight > 600, 000. After addition of (55) Fe to the medium, immunoprecipitates of this species contain > 16 atoms of (55) Fe per molecule of mYfh1p. We propose that iron-dependent self-assembly of recombinant mYfh1p reflects a physiological role for frataxin in mitochondrial iron sequestration and bioavailability.
10196381	Adrenoleukodystrophy-related protein can compensate functionally for adrenoleukodystrophy protein deficiency (X-ALD): implications for therapy.	Inherited defects in the peroxisomal ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter adrenoleukodystrophy protein (ALDP) lead to the lethal peroxisomal disorder X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), for which no efficient treatment has been established so far. Three other peroxisomal ABC transporters currently are known  adrenoleukodystrophy-related protein (ALDRP), 70 kDa peroxisomal membrane protein (PMP70) and PMP70- related protein. By using transient and stable overexpression of human cDNAs encoding ALDP and its closest relative ALDRP, we could restore the impaired peroxisomal beta-oxidation in fibroblasts of X-ALD patients. The pathognomonic accumulation of very long chain fatty acids could also be prevented by overexpression of ALDRP in immortalized X-ALD cells. Immunofluorescence analysis demonstrated that the functional replacement of ALDP by ALDRP was not due to stabilization of the mutated ALDP itself. Moreover, we were able to restore the peroxisomal beta-oxidation defect in the liver of ALDP-deficient mice by stimulation of ALDRP and PMP70 gene expression through a dietary treatment with the peroxisome proliferator fenofibrate. These results suggest that a correction of the biochemical defect in X-ALD could be possible by drug-induced overexpression or ectopic expression of ALDRP.
1301187	Molecular basis of phenylketonuria and related hyperphenylalaninemias: mutations and polymorphisms in the human phenylalanine hydroxylase gene.	Mutations in the human phenylalanine hydroxylase gene producing phenylketonuria or hyperphenylalaninemia have now been identified in many patients from various ethnic groups. These mutations all exhibit a high degree of association with specific restriction fragment-length polymorphism haplotypes at the PAH locus. About 50 of these mutations are single-base substitutions, including six nonsense mutations and eight splicing mutations, with the remainder being missense mutations. One splicing mutation results in a 3 amino acid in-frame insertion. Two or 3 large deletions, 2 single codon deletions, and 2 single base deletions have been found. Twelve of the missense mutations apparently result from the methylation and subsequent deamination of highly mutagenic CpG dinucleotides. Recurrent mutation has been observed at several of these sites, producing associations with different haplotypes in different populations. About half of all missense mutations have been examined by in vitro expression analysis, and a significant correlation has been observed between residual PAH activity and disease phenotype. Since continuing advances in molecular methodologies have dramatically accelerated the rate in which new mutations are being identified and characterized, this register of mutations will be updated periodically.
1483696	The intron 7 donor splice site transition: a second Tay-Sachs disease mutation in French Canada.	Mutations at the hexosaminidase A (HEXA) gene which cause Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) have elevated frequency in the Ashkenazi Jewish and French-Canadian populations. We report a novel TSD allele in the French-Canadian population associated with the infantile form of the disease. The mutation, a G-- > A transition at the + 1 position of intron 7, abolishes the donor splice site. Cultured human fibroblasts from a compound heterozygote for this transition (and for a deletion mutation) produce no detectable HEXA mRNA. The intron 7 + 1 mutation occurs in the base adjacent to the site of the adult-onset TSD mutation (G805A). In both mutations a restriction site for the endonuclease EcoRII is abolished. Unambiguous diagnosis, therefore, requires allele-specific oligonucleotide hybridization to distinguish between these two mutant alleles. The intron 7 + 1 mutation has been detected in three unrelated families. Obligate heterozygotes for the intron 7 + 1 mutation were born in the Saguenay-Lac-St-Jean region of Quebec. The most recent ancestors common to obligate carriers of this mutation were from the Charlevoix region of the province of Quebec. This mutation thus has a different geographic centre of diffusion and is probably less common than the exon 1 deletion TSD mutation in French Canadians. Neither mutation has been detected in France, the ancestral homeland of French Canada.
3572301	Sialophorin, a surface sialoglycoprotein defective in the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, is involved in human T lymphocyte proliferation.	The mAb L10 was used to determine the distribution and the function of sialophorin, the heavily glycosylated surface molecule that is deficient/defective in lymphocytes of patients with the X-linked immunodeficiency Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome. Dual-parameter FACS analysis indicated that sialophorin is expressed on CD4 + and CD8 + lymphocytes, on a subpopulation of peripheral blood B lymphocytes, on all thymocytes, and on a subpopulation of bone marrow cells. Functional studies demonstrated that L10 mAb stimulates the proliferation of peripheral blood T lymphocytes as measured by stimulation of [3H] thymidine incorporation. The time course and magnitude of increased [3H] thymidine incorporation by T lymphocytes in response to L10 mAb paralleled that induced by anti-CD3 mAb. Effective stimulation was dependent on the presence of monocytes and the Fc portion of L10 mAb. Stimulation of lymphocytes by L10, like stimulation by anti-CD3 mAb, involves increased expression of 4F2, HLA-DR, and IL-2-R. These observations suggest that sialophorin functions in T cell activation.
7581380	Myotonia levior is a chloride channel disorder.	The group of dominant non-dystrophic myotonias, comprising disorders characterized by clinically similar forms of myogenic muscle stiffness, is genetically inhomogeneous. Dominant myotonia congenita (Thomsens disease) is linked to CLCN1, the gene encoding the major muscle chloride channel, localized on chromosome 7q35. In contrast, dominant myotonias sensitive to potassium are caused by point mutations in SCN4A on chromosome 17q, the gene for the alpha subunit of the adult skeletal muscle sodium channel. No linkage or molecular genetic data are as yet available on myotonia levior characterized by milder symptoms and later onset of myotonia than in Thomsens disease, and absence of muscle hypertrophy. We report a CLCN1 Gln-552-Arg substitution for a family with dominant inheritance previously diagnosed to have myotonia levior. Thus, this disorder appears as a variant of Thomsens disease due to mutations leading to low clinical expressivity. In addition, we report a novel Ile-290-Met CLCN1 mutation for a typical Thomsen pedigree. In another family previously diagnosed as having Thomsens disease, we unexpectedly found a CLCN1 14 bp deletion known to cause recessive myotonia, and a rare Trp-118-Gly polymorphism.
8282802	Markedly accelerated catabolism of apolipoprotein A-II (ApoA-II) and high density lipoproteins containing ApoA-II in classic lecithin: cholesterol acyltransferase deficiency and fish-eye disease.	Classic (complete) lecithin  cholesterol acyltransferase (LCAT) deficiency and Fish-eye disease (partial LCAT deficiency) are genetic syndromes associated with markedly decreased plasma levels of high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol but not with an increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. We investigated the metabolism of the HDL apolipoproteins (apo) apoA-I and apoA-II in a total of five patients with LCAT deficiency, one with classic LCAT deficiency and four with Fish-eye disease. Plasma levels of apoA-II were decreased to a proportionately greater extent (23% of normal) than apoA-I (30% of normal). In addition, plasma concentrations of HDL particles containing both apoA-I and apoA-II (LpA-I  A-II) were much lower (18% of normal) than those of particles containing only apoA-I (LpA-I) (51% of normal). The metabolic basis for the low levels of apoA-II and LpA-I  A-II was investigated in all five patients using both exogenous radiotracer and endogenous stable isotope labeling techniques. The mean plasma residence time of apoA-I was decreased at 2. 08 +/- 0. 27 d (controls 4. 74 +/- 0. 65 days); however, the residence time of apoA-II was even shorter at 1. 66 +/- 0. 24 d (controls 5. 25 +/- 0. 61 d). In addition, the catabolism of apoA-I in LpA-I  A-II was substantially faster than that of apoA-I in LpA-I. In summary, genetic syndromes of either complete or partial LCAT deficiency result in low levels of HDL through preferential hypercatabolism of apoA-II and HDL particles containing apoA-II. Because LpA-I has been proposed to be more protective than LpA-I  A-II against atherosclerosis, this selective effect on the metabolism of LpA-I  A-II may provide a potential explanation why patients with classic LCAT deficiency and Fish-eye disease are not at increased risk for premature atherosclerosis despite markedly decreased levels of HDL cholesterol and apoA-I.
1973404	Linkage of aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) to marker loci on the long arm of chromosome 4.	Aspartylglucosaminuria (AGU) is caused by deficient activity of the enzyme aspartylglucosaminidase (AGA). The structural gene for AGA has been assigned to the region 4q21-qter of chromosome 4. We have studied the map position of the AGU locus in relation to other marker loci on the long arm of chromosome 4 using linkage analyses. Restriction fragment length polymorphism alleles for the ADH2, ADH3, EGF, FG alpha and FG beta loci and blood group antigens for the MNS locus were determined in a panel of 12 Finnish AGU families. The heterozygous family members were identified by reduced activity of AGA in lymphocytes. Linkage studies were performed using both pairwise and multipoint analyses. Loose linkage of the AGU locus to the FG and MNS loci was observed (z = 1. 16, z = 1. 39, respectively). Multipoint analysis to the fixed map [ADH- (0. 03) -EGF- (0. 35) -FG- (0. 11) -MNS] suggests that the location of the AGU locus is 0. 05-0. 30 recombination units distal to MNS (z = 3. 03). The order cen-ADH-EGF-FG-MNS-AGU is 35 times more likely than the next best order cen-ADH-EGF-AGU-FG-MNS.
1610789	Molecular characterization of two galactosemia mutations and one polymorphism: implications for structure-function analysis of human galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase.	We report here the molecular characterization of two galactosemia mutations, L74P and F171S, and one polymorphism, S135L, in human galactose-1-phosphate uridyltransferase (GALT). Both galactosemia mutations result in reduced enzymatic activity when reconstructed in the cDNA and overexpressed. The polymorphism, in contrast, has near normal activity. Both mutations affect evolutionarily conserved residues, suggesting that they are functionally important, while the polymorphism occurs in a nonconserved domain which is presumably not critical for enzymatic function. The F171S mutation is close to the putative active-site nucleophile. Our data further support the notion of molecular heterogeneity of galactosemia and suggest that galactosemia mutations and GALT polymorphisms may be useful tools in highlighting different functional domains in human GALT.
8209890	Investigation of thermoregulatory characteristics in patients with Prader-Willi syndrome.	A survey instrument is used to assess temperature regulation characteristics in children with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) compared to 3 control groups  sibs of PWS patients (SIB), neurodevelopmentally handicapped children (ND), and age and gender matched well children (WC). Significant differences were found between PWS patients, SIB controls, and WC controls in the prevalence of febrile convulsions, fever-associated symptoms, and temperature less than 94 degrees F. No differences were noted in any variable between the PWS patients and the ND controls, suggesting that these abnormalities are not unique to PWS, but can occur in any neurodevelopmentally handicapped individual, further suggesting these do not necessarily reflect syndrome-specific hypothalamic abnormalities.
7298854	Abnormal high density lipoproteins in cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis.	The plasma lipoprotein profiles and high density lipoproteins (HDL) were characterized in patients with the genetic disease cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX). Abnormalities in the HDL may contribute to their increased atherogenesis and excessive deposits of tissue sterols in the presence of low or low-normal concentrations of plasma cholesterol (165 +/- 25 mg/dl) and low density lipoproteins (LDL). The mean HDL-cholesterol concentration in the CTX plasmas was 14. 5 +/- 3. 2 mg/dl, about one-third the normal value. The low HDL-cholesterol reflects a low concentration and an abnormal lipid composition of the plasma HDL. Relative to normal HDL, the cholesteryl esters are low, free cholesterol and phospholipids essentially normal, and triglycerides increased. The ratio of apoprotein (apo) to total cholesterol in the HDL of CTX was two to three times greater than normal. In the CTX HDL, the ratio of apoAI to apoAII was high, the proportion of apoC low, and a normally minor form of apoAI increased relative to other forms. The HDL in electron micrographs appeared normal morphologically and in particle size. The abnormalities in lipoprotein distribution profile and composition of the plasma HDL result from metabolic defects that are not understood but may be linked to the genetic defect in bile acid synthesis in CTX. As a consequence, it is probable that the normal functions of the HDL, possibly including modulation of LDL-cholesterol uptake and the removal of excess cholesterol from peripheral tissues, are perturbed significantly in this disease.
23402	Glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants: Gd (+) Alexandra associated with neonatal jaundice and Gd (-) Camperdown in a young man with lamellar cataracts.	Two male subjects are described, with unusual clinical presentations and with hitherto undescribed G6PD variants. The first, of Italian extraction, suffered from severe neonatal jaundice following maternal ingestion of fresh broad beans (Vicia fava) both prenatally and postnatally  the expression of the enzymatic defect was much more severe in the neonatal period than on retesting in adolescence, when biochemical characterization showed unique features which justify designation as a new variant Gd (+) Alexandra. The second patient, a boy of Maltese extraction who was found to have bilateral lamellar cataracts at the age of 4 years, was identified as G6PD deficient only as a result of a survey of children of Mediterranean origin with unexplained cataract formation; he has approximately 15% of normal enzyme activity, with another unique combination of biochemical characteristics which has led to its designation as Gd (-) Camperdown. Although this association may be coincidental, it prompts further attention to the possibility that under certain circumstances G6PD deficiency may favor cataract formation. The two cases illustrate the value of characterization of the mutant enzyme whenever unexpected clinical or laboratory results are obtained.
10484765	Cis and trans effects of the myotonic dystrophy (DM) mutation in a cell culture model.	The mutation causing myotonic dystrophy (DM) has been identified as a CTG expansion in the 3-untranslated region (3-UTR) of the DM protein kinase gene (DMPK), but the mechanism (s) of pathogenesis remain unknown. Studies using DM patient materials have often produced confusing results. Therefore, to study the effects of the DM mutation in a controlled environment, we have established a cell culture model system using C2C12 mouse myoblasts. By expressing chimeric reporter constructs containing a reporter gene fused to a human DMPK 3-UTR, we identified both cis and trans effects that are mediated by the DM mutation. Our data show that a mutant DMPK 3-UTR, with as few as 57 CTGs, had a negative cis effect on protein expression and resulted in the aggregation of reporter transcripts into discrete nuclear foci. We determined by deletion analysis that an expanded (CTG) (n) tract alone was sufficient to mediate these cis effects. Furthermore, in contrast to the normal DMPK 3-UTR mRNA, a mutant DMPK 3-UTR mRNA with (CUG) (200) selectively inhibited myogenic differentiation of C2C12 myoblasts. Genetic analysis and the Cre- loxP system were used to clearly demonstrate that the myoblast fusion defect could be rescued by eliminating the expression of the mutant DMPK 3-UTR transcript. Characterization of spontaneous deletion events mapped the inhibitory effect to the (CTG) (n) expansion and/or the 3 end of the DMPK 3-UTR. These results provide evidence that the DM mutation acts in cis to reduce protein production (consistent with DMPK haploinsufficiency) and in trans as a riboregulator to inhibit myogenesis.
1352883	Oncogenic point mutations in exon 20 of the RB1 gene in families showing incomplete penetrance and mild expression of the retinoblastoma phenotype.	The retinoblastoma-predisposition gene, RB1, segregates as an autosomal dominant trait with high (90%) penetrance. Certain families, however, show an unusual low-penetrance phenotype with many individuals being unaffected, unilaterally affected, or with evidence of spontaneously regressed tumors. We have used single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis and PCR sequencing to study two such families. Mutations were found in exon 20 of RB1 in both cases. In one family a C----T transition in codon 661 converts an arginine (CGG) to a tryptophan (TGG) codon. In this family, incomplete penetrance and mild phenotypic expression were observed in virtually all patients, possibly indicating that single amino acid changes may modify protein structure/function such that tumorigenesis is not inevitable. In the second family the mutation in codon 675 is a G----T transversion that converts a glutamine (GAA) to a stop (TAA) codon. However, this mutation also occurs near a potential cryptic splice acceptor site, raising the possibility of alternative splicing resulting in a less severely disrupted protein.
2055114	Localization of histidase to human chromosome region 12q22----q24.1 and mouse chromosome region 10C2----D1.	The human gene for histidase (histidine ammonia-lyase; HAL), the enzyme deficient in histidinemia, was assigned to human chromosome 12 by Southern blot analysis of human X mouse somatic cell hybrid DNA. The gene was sublocalized to region 12q22----q24. 1 by in situ hybridization, using a human histidase cDNA. The homologous locus in the mouse (Hal) was mapped to region 10C2----D1 by in situ hybridization, using a cell line from a mouse homozygous for a 1. 10 Robertsonian translocation. These assignments extend the conserved syntenic region between human chromosome 12 and mouse chromosome 10 that includes the genes for phenylalanine hydroxylase, gamma interferon, peptidase, and citrate synthase. The localization of histidase to mouse chromosome 10 suggests that the histidase regulatory locus (Hsd) and the histidinemia mutation (his), which are both known to be on chromosome 10, may be alleles of the histidase structural gene locus.
1384324	Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease: detection of mutations Thr181----Pro and Leu223----Pro in the proteolipid protein gene, and prenatal diagnosis.	A family with an apparent history of X-linked Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease presented for genetic counseling, requesting carrier detection and prenatal diagnosis. RFLP analysis using the proteolipid protein (PLP) gene probe was uninformative in this family. A prenatal diagnosis on a chorionic villus sample (CVS) was carried out using single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis of a variant in exon 4 of the PLP gene. The fetus was predicted to be unaffected. Sequencing of the exon from the CVS, the predicted-carrier mother, and the obligate-carrier grandmother revealed an A-to-C change at nucleotide 541 in the two women but not in the fetus. As this change results in a Thr-to-Pro change at amino acid 181 in a region of the gene predicted to be part of a transmembrane segment, it was concluded that this was the mutation causing the disease in this family. In addition, in a second family, an exon 5 variant band pattern on SSCP analysis was shown by sequencing to be due to a T-to-C change at nucleotide 668. This results in a Leu-to-Pro change in a carrier mother and in her two affected sons. These results provide further examples of mutations in PLP that cause Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease and illustrate the value of SSCP in genetic analysis.
10484772	Coats' disease of the retina (unilateral retinal telangiectasis) caused by somatic mutation in the NDP gene: a role for norrin in retinal angiogenesis.	Coats disease is characterized by abnormal retinal vascular development (so-called retinal telangiectasis) which results in massive intraretinal and subretinal lipid accumulation (exudative retinal detachment). The classical form of Coats disease is almost invariably isolated, unilateral and seen in males. A female with a unilateral variant of Coats disease gave birth to a son affected by Norrie disease. Both carried a missense mutation within the NDP gene on chromosome Xp11. 2 2. Subsequently analysis of the retinas of nine enucleated eyes from males with Coats disease demonstrated in one a somatic mutation in the NDP gene which was not present within non-retinal tissue. We suggest that Coats telangiectasis is secondary to somatic mutation in the NDP gene which results in a deficiency of norrin (the protein product of the NDP gene) within the developing retina. This supports recent observations that the protein is critical for normal retinal vasculogenesis.
10598815	Alstrom syndrome: further evidence for linkage to human chromosome 2p13.	Alstrom syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by retinal degeneration, sensorineural hearing loss, early-onset obesity, and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. The gene for Alstrom syndrome (ALMS1) has been previously localized to human chromosome 2p13 by homozygosity mapping in two distinct isolated populations - French Acadian and North African. Pair-wise analyses resulted in maximum lod (logarithm of the odds ratio) scores of 3. 84 and 2. 9, respectively. To confirm these findings, a large linkage study was performed in twelve additional families segregating for Alstrom syndrome. A maximum two-point lod score of 7. 13 (theta = 0. 00) for marker D2S2110 and a maximum cumulative multipoint lod score of 9. 16 for marker D2S2110 were observed, further supporting linkage to chromosome 2p13. No evidence of genetic heterogeneity was observed in these families. Meiotic recombination events have localized the critical region containing ALMS1 to a 6. 1-cM interval flanked by markers D2S327 and D2S286. A fine resolution radiation hybrid map of 31 genes and markers has been constructed.
10398436	Beta-catenin accumulation and mutation of the CTNNB1 gene in hepatoblastoma.	Hepatoblastoma is a rare malignant tumor of the liver that occurs in children at an average age of 2 to 3 years. Epidemiologic studies have shown an increased frequency of this tumor type in families affected by adenomatous polyposis coli. In addition to the epidemiologic data, molecular genetic studies suggest that inactivation of the APC tumor suppressor may be involved in hepatoblastoma tumorigenesis. A major function of APC is the downregulation of beta-catenin, a transcription-activating protein with oncogenic potential. In an ongoing immunohistochemical study of beta-catenin expression in sporadic cases of tumor types that are associated with adenomatous polyposis coli, we observed increased beta-catenin levels in the cytoplasm and in the nuclei of three investigated hepatoblastomas. Sequencing of exon 3 of the beta-catenin gene (CTNNB1) revealed an activating mutation in one of the tumor samples. Our data indicate for the first time that beta-catenin accumulation may play a role in the development of hepatoblastoma and that activating mutations of the beta-catenin gene may substitute biallelic APC inactivation in this tumor type. Genes Chromosomes Cancer 25  399-402, 1999.
1303170	Cloning of the Huntington disease region in yeast artificial chromosomes.	The gene responsible for Huntington disease has been localized to a 2. 5 million base pair (Mb) region between the loci D4S10 and D4S168 on the short arm of chromosome 4. As part of a strategy to clone the HD gene on the basis of its chromosomal location, we isolated genomic DNA from the HD region as a set of overlapping yeast artificial chromosome (YAC) clones. Twenty-eight YAC clones were identified by screening human YAC libraries with twelve PCR-based sequence-tagged sites (STSs) from the region. We assembled the YAC clones into overlapping sets by hybridizing them to a large number of DNA probes from the HD region, including the STSs. In addition, we isolated the ends of the human DNA inserts of most of the YAC clones to assist in the construction of the contig. Although almost half of the YACs appear to contain chimeric inserts and several contain internal deletions or other rearrangements, we were able to obtain over 2. 2 Mb of the HD region in YACs, including one continuous segment of 2. 0 Mb covering the region that most likely contains the HD gene. Ten of the twenty eight YAC clones comprise a minimal set spanning the 2. 2 Mb. These clones provide reagents for the complete characterization of this region of the genome and for the eventual isolation of the HD gene.
6087154	Molecular evidence for new mutation at the hprt locus in Lesch-Nyhan patients.	Hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT; EC2. 4. 2. 8), which functions in the metabolic salvage of purines, is encoded by an X-linked gene in man. Partial HPRT deficiencies are associated with gouty arthritis, while absence of activity results in Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (L-N). L-N patients fail to reproduce and the heterozygous state appears to confer no selective advantage. Thus, Haldanes principle predicts that new mutations at the hprt locus must occur frequently in order for L-N syndrome to be maintained in the population. This constant introduction of new mutations would be expected to result in a heterogeneous collection of genetic lesions, some of which may be novel. As we report here, the mutations in the hprt gene of seven L-N patients, selected from an initial survey of 28 patients, have been characterized and all were found to be distinctly different, as predicted. The origin of one unusual mutation has been identified by analysis of DNA from four generations of family members. Further molecular analysis of the origin of new mutations at the hprt locus should aid in resolving the issue of an apparent difference in the frequency of hprt mutations in males and females.
3600793	The mapping of a cDNA from the human X-linked Duchenne muscular dystrophy gene to the mouse X chromosome.	The recent discovery of sequences at the site of the Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) gene in humans has opened up the possibility of a detailed molecular analysis of the genes in humans and in related mammalian species. Until relatively recently, there was no obvious mouse model of this genetic disease for the development of therapeutic strategies. The identification of a mouse X-linked mutant showing muscular dystrophy, mdx, has provided a candidate mouse genetic homologue to the DMD locus; the relatively mild pathological features of mdx suggest it may have more in common with mutations of the Becker muscular dystrophy type at the same human locus, however. But the close genetic linkage of mdx to G6PD and Hprt on the mouse X chromosome, coupled with its comparatively mild pathology, have suggested that the mdx mutation may instead correspond to Emery Dreifuss muscular dystrophy which itself is closely linked to DNA markers at Xq28-qter in the region of G6PD on the human X chromosome. Using an interspecific mouse domesticus/spretus cross, segregating for a variety of markers on the mouse X chromosome, we have positioned on the mouse X chromosome sequences homologous to a DMD cDNA clone. These sequences map provocatively close to the mdx mutation and unexpectedly distant from sparse fur, spf, the mouse homologue of OTC (ornithine transcarbamylase) which is closely linked to DMD on the human X chromosome.
10874302	The human factor IX gene as germline mutagen test: samples from Mainland China have the putatively endogenous pattern of mutation.	Germline mutations are the major source of genetic variation that allows a species to evolve over time but at the cost of Mendelian disease and genetic predisposition to multifactorial diseases. Previous analyses have revealed that the pattern of germline mutations in the factor IX gene (F9) is similar among a variety of ethnically and geographically diverse populations and compatible with the ancient pattern that has shaped the mammalian genome. Here, we compare the pattern of germline mutation in a population of hemophilia B patients from Mainland China (n = 66) to that in U. S. Caucasians, Blacks, and Mexican Hispanics and stratify by disease severity and ethnicity. The similar pattern of germline mutation in all ethnic groups studied to date provides additional data compatible with the inference that endogenous processes predominate in germline mutations.
10721669	Novel mutations of the ATP7B gene in Japanese patients with Wilson disease.	Wilson disease (WD) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized by copper accumulation in the liver, brain, kidneys, and corneas, and culminating in copper toxication in these organs. In this study, we analyzed mutations of the responsible gene, ATP7B, in four Japanese patients with WD. By direct sequencing, we identified five mutations, of which two were novel, and 16 polymorphisms, of which 6 were novel. The mutations 2871delC and 2513delA shift the reading frame so that truncated abnormal protein is expected. In contrast to these mutations found in patients with hepatic-type of early onset, the mutations A874V, R778L, and 3892delGTC were either missense mutations or in frame 1-amino acid deletion, and occurred in the patients with hepato-neurologic type of late onset. The mutations 2871delC and R778L have been previously reported in a relatively large number of Japanese patients. In particular, R778L is known to be more prevalent in Asian countries than in other countries of the world. Our data are compatible with the hypothesis that the mutations tend to occur in a population-specific manner. Therefore, the accumulation of the types of mutations in Japanese patients with WD will facilitate the fast and effective genetic diagnosis of WD in Japanese patients.
10875918	Fas preassociation required for apoptosis signaling and dominant inhibition by pathogenic mutations.	Heterozygous mutations encoding abnormal forms of the death receptor Fas dominantly interfere with Fas-induced lymphocyte apoptosis in human autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome. This effect, rather than depending on ligand-induced receptor oligomerization, was found to stem from ligand- independent interaction of wild-type and mutant Fas receptors through a specific region in the extracellular domain. Preassociated Fas complexes were found in living cells by means of fluorescence resonance energy transfer between variants of green fluorescent protein. These results show that formation of preassociated receptor complexes is necessary for Fas signaling and dominant interference in human disease.
8128954	Gonosomal mosaicism in myotonic dystrophy patients: involvement of mitotic events in (CTG)n repeat variation and selection against extreme expansion in sperm.	Myotonic dystrophy (DM) is caused by abnormal expansion of a polymorphic (CTG) n repeat, located in the DM protein kinase gene. We determined the (CTG) n repeat lengths in a broad range of tissue DNAs from patients with mild, classical, or congenital manifestation of DM. Differences in the repeat length were seen in somatic tissues from single DM individuals and twins. Repeats appeared to expand to a similar extent in tissues originating from the same embryonal origin. In most male patients carrying intermediate- or small-sized expansions in blood, the repeat lengths covered a markedly wider range in sperm. In contrast, male patients with large allele expansions in blood (> 700 CTGs) had similar or smaller repeats in sperm, when detectable. Sperm alleles with > 1, 000 CTGs were not seen. We conclude that DM patients can be considered gonosomal mosaics, i. e e., combined somatic and germ-line tissue mosaics. Most remarkably, we observed multiple cases where the length distributions of intermediate- or small-sized alleles in fathers sperm were significantly different from that in their offsprings blood. Our combined findings indicate that intergenerational length changes in the unstable CTG repeat are most likely to occur during early embryonic mitotic divisions in both somatic and germ-line tissue formation. Both the initial CTG length, the overall number of cell divisions involved in tissue formation, and perhaps a specific selection process in spermatogenesis may influence the dynamics of this process. A model explaining mitotic instability and sex-dependent segregation phenomena in DM manifestation is discussed.
1346773	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome: refinement of the localization on Xp and identification of another closely linked marker locus, OATL1.	The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) has previously been mapped to the proximal short arm of the X chromosome between the DXS14 and DXS7 loci. In this study, further segregation analysis has been performed using a newly identified WAS family as well as an additional marker probe, HOATL1. The results indicate close linkage between the WAS and OATL1 loci (Z = 6. 08 at theta = 0. 00) and localize the TIMP, OATL1, DXS255, and WAS loci distal to DXS146 and the OATL1 and WAS loci proximal to TIMP. These linkage data narrow the boundaries within which the WAS locus maps to the chromosomal region bracketed by TIMP and DXS146 and support the loci order Xpter-DXS7-TIMP- (OATL1, WAS, DXS255) -DXS146.
7696601	Brain disease and molecular analysis in myotonic dystrophy.	Abnormal amplification of a CTG repeat on chromosome 19 is the molecular basis of myotonic dystrophy (DM). Expansion of the repeat has been correlated with severity of several clinical features of the disease. We performed extensive cognitive testing, cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and a molecular analysis in 28 cases of DM to determine the relationship between the molecular defect and brain disease. Performance in two or more cognitive tests was pathological in 10 cases. Fourteen patients had subcortical white matter lesions on MRI, 14 had cerebral atrophy. Amplification of the CTG repeat showed a strong correlation with cognitive test deficits when exceeding a length of over 1000 trinucleotides. MRI lesions were associated with impaired psychometric performance, but MRI and molecular findings were only weakly related. Disease duration influenced the appearance and amount of white matter lesions on MRI. Quantification of CTG repeat size may allow an early estimate on the probability of brain involvement in DM; cognitive dysfunction is associated with white matter lesions and cerebral atrophy later on in the course.
10528853	A highly accurate, low cost test for BRCA1 mutations.	The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is associated with a high frequency of BRCA1 mutations. However, the widespread use of BRCA1 testing has been limited to date by three principal concerns  the fear of loss of health and life insurance, the uncertain clinical value of a positive test result, and the current lack of an inexpensive and sensitive screening test for BRCA1 mutations. We have developed an inexpensive system for gene mutational scanning, based on a combination of extensive multiplex PCR amplification and two dimensional electrophoresis. The efficiency of this system, as a screening test for BRCA1 mutations, was evaluated in a panel of 60 samples from high risk women, 14 of which contained a previously identified mutation in BRCA1. All 14 mutations were identified, as well as an additional five that had previously escaped detection. In addition to the 19 mutations, a total of 15 different polymorphic variants were scored, most of which were recurring. All were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing. The cost of screening per sample was calculated to be approximately US $ 70 for the manual technique used in this study, and may be reduced to approximately US $ 10 with the introduction of commercially available PCR robotics and fluorescent imaging. Implementation of this method of mutation screening in the research and clinical setting should permit rapid accrual of quantitative data on genotype-phenotype associations for the evaluation of diagnostic testing.
10470286	Mxi1 mutations in human neurofibrosarcomas.	Mxi1 is thought to negatively regulate Myc function and may therefore be a potential tumor suppressor gene. Little effort has yet been made to find alterations involving this gene in human solid tumors. We screened 31 human gastric cancers, 7 esophageal cancers, 85 bone and soft tissue tumors of various types, including 4 neurofibrosarcomas. We also examined 29 human tumor cell lines consisting of 12 esophageal cancers, 7 glioma/glioblastomas and 10 others for Mxi1 mutations in exons 1, 2, 4 (HLH domain), 5 and 6. Polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism (PCR-SSCP) and subsequent sequencing revealed three distinct polymorphisms in the intron-exon boundary upstream from exon 6. We discovered a missense mutation, GCA to GTA (Ala 54 Val), in exon 2 in a neurofibrosarcoma patient (case 1), two missense mutations, AAA to CAA (Lys 118 Gln) and GAA to GGA (Glu 154 Gly) in exon 5 of another neurofibrosarcoma patient (case 2), and 3 amino acid substitutions, GTG to GCG (Val 179 Ala), GTT to GCT (Val 181 Ala) and TTC to CTC (Phe 186 Leu), in a third neurofibrosarcoma patient (case 3). In case 3, loss of heterozygosity was also demonstrated by informative (TTC) 3/(TTC) 2 polymorphism. Our data demonstrate that mutations occur in the Mxi1 gene in neurofibrosarcoma. Missense mutations in the functional domain of Mxi1 in these cases may be involved in the pathogenesis of neurofibrosarcoma.
1315306	Chromosome mapping of the rod photoreceptor cGMP phosphodiesterase beta-subunit gene in mouse and human: tight linkage to the Huntington disease region (4p16.3).	The retinal degeneration mouse (gene symbol, rd) is an animal model for certain forms of human hereditary retinopathies. Recent findings of a nonsense mutation in the rd mouse PDE beta-subunit gene (Pdeb) prompted us to investigate the chromosome locations of the mouse and human genes. We have utilized backcross analysis in mice to verify and define more precisely the location of the Pdeb locus 6. 1 +/- 2. 3 cM distal of Mgsa on mouse chromosome 5. We have determined that the human gene (PDEB) maps to 4p16. 3, very close to the Huntington disease (HD) region. Analysis of the comparative map for mice and humans shows that the mouse homologue of the HD gene will reside on chromosome 5. Linkage of the mouse Pdeb locus with other homologues in the human 4p16. 3 region is maintained but gene order is not, suggesting at least three possible sites for the corresponding mouse HD gene.
1302032	Fragile X syndrome without CCG amplification has an FMR1 deletion.	We describe a patient with typical clinical features of the fragile X syndrome, but without cytogenetic expression of the fragile X or an amplified CCG trinucleotide repeat fragment. The patient has a previously uncharacterized submicroscopic deletion encompassing the CCG repeat, the entire FMR1 gene and about 2. 5 megabases of flanking sequences. This finding confirms that the fragile X phenotype can exist, without amplification of the CCG repeat or cytogenetic expression of the fragile X, and that fragile X syndrome is a genetically homogeneous disorder involving FMR1. We also found random X-inactivation in the mother of the patient who was shown to be a carrier of this deletion.
10398279	Common mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 do not contribute to early prostate cancer in Jewish men.	BACKGROUND  Families with a high incidence of hereditary breast cancer, and subsequently shown to have terminating mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2, appear to have a higher incidence of prostate cancer among male relatives. We aimed to determine whether the common germline mutations of BRCA1 or BRCA2 in Ashkenazi Jewish men predisposed them to prostate cancer. METHODS  We examined genomic DNA from 83 (for BRCA1 185delAG) or 82 (for BRCA2 6174delT) Ashkenazi Jewish prostate cancer patients, most of whom were treated at a relatively young age, for the most common germline mutation in each gene seen in the Ashkenazi population. RESULTS  Our study should have been able to detect a 4-5-fold increase in the risk of prostate cancer due to mutation of BRCA1 or BRCA2. However, only one (1. 15%; 95% confidence interval, 0-3. 6%) of the patients was heterozygous for the BRCA1 mutant allele, and only two were heterozygous for the BRCA2 mutation (2. 4%; 95% confidence interval, 0-6. 2%). CONCLUSIONS  The incidence of each of the germline mutations in these prostate cancer patients closely matched their incidence (about 1%) in the general Ashkenazi Jewish population. This suggests that unlike cases of breast and ovarian cancers, mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 do not significantly predispose men to prostate cancer.
6650504	The Tay-Sachs disease gene in North American Jewish populations: geographic variations and origin.	From data collected in a North American Tay-Sachs disease (TSD) heterozygote screening program, the TSD carrier frequency among 46, 304 Jewish individuals was found to be. 0324 (1 in 31 individuals). This frequency is consistent with earlier estimates based on TSD incidence data. TSD carrier frequencies were then examined by single country and single region of origin in 28, 029 Jews within this sample for whom such data were available for analysis. Jews with Polish and/or Russian ancestry constituted 88% of this sample and had a TSD carrier frequency of. 0327. No TSD carriers were observed among the 166 Jews of Near Eastern origins. Relative to Jews of Polish and Russian origins, there was at least a twofold increase in the TSD carrier frequency in Jews of Austrian, Hungarian, and Czechoslovakian origins (P less than. 005). These findings suggest that the TSD gene proliferated among the antecedents of modern Ashkenazi Jewry after the Second Diaspora (70 A. D.) and before their major migrations to regions of Poland and Russia (before 1100 A. D.).
1978564	Genetic linkage map of six polymorphic DNA markers around the gene for familial adenomatous polyposis on chromosome 5.	A genetic linkage map of six polymorphic DNA markers close to the gene (APC) for familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) on chromosome 5q is reported. One hundred fifty-five typed members of nine FAP kindred provided more than 90 meioses for linkage analysis. A number of crucial recombination events have been identified which are informative at three or more loci, allowing confident ordering of parts of the map. There was no evidence of genetic heterogeneity, with all families showing linkage of at least one chromosome 5 marker to the gene. Recombination data and two-point linkage analysis support a locus order of centromere-pi 227-C11P11-ECB27-L5. 62-APC-EF5 62-APC-EF5. 44-YN5 44-YN5. 48-telomer e, although EF5. 44 could lie in the interval L5. 62-APC or ECB27-L5. 62. No recombinants were identified between APC and either EF5. 44 or YN5. 48, but published deletion mapping in colorectal carcinomas and linkage analysis in FAP suggest that YN5. 48 is 1-3 cM from APC. The present study suggests that YN5. 48 and L5. 62 delineate a small region of chromosome 5 within which the EF5. 44 locus lies very close to the APC gene. These data not only allow use of flanking markers for presymptomatic diagnosis of FAP but also provide a high-density map of the region for isolation of the APC gene itself and for further assessment of the role of chromosome 5 deletions in the biology of sporadic colorectal cancer.
7767095	Discordant clinical outcome in myotonic dystrophy relatives showing (CTG)n > 700 repeats.	A myotonic dystrophy (DM) family is described in which discordant DM phenotypes were found in the children of two affected sisters with similar CTG expansion and clinical manifestations. In this family, congenital as well as early severe childhood and later childhood onset DM coexist. This observation strengthens the limited ability of lymphocytes CTG repeat number analysis in predicting genotype-phenotype correlations in DM patients.
4019732	Genetic analysis in families with van der Woude syndrome.	We have brought together information on 864 affected individuals in 164 families (including three new pedigrees) reported in the 137 year period since 1845 when Demarquay first described a family with what was later called van der Woude syndrome (VWS). Both types of oral cleft, cleft palate (CP) and cleft lip with or without CP (CLP), segregate in these families together with lower lip pits or fistulae in an autosomal dominant mode with high penetrance estimated to be K =. 89 and. 99 by different methods. Cleft types (CLP and CP) occur in VWS in the same proportions as in the general non-VWS population, ie, about twice as many cleft-bearing individuals have CLP as have CP. On the other hand, we do not find the usually observed excess of females with CP and excess of males with CLP; in VWS the sex ratios are more nearly equal. Lip pits also are equally distributed between the sexes. Affected males and females are equally likely to transmit VWS. However, there is an excess of less severely affected individuals among transmitters and a deficiency of more severely affected, brought about by a proband bias and differential fecundity. The expression of VWS is significantly modified by the genetic background  More extreme phenotypes in parents tend to produce more extreme expression in their children. For a VWS gene carrier the relative risk of transmitting a cleft is 26. 45%; that of transmitting lower lip pits is 23. 55%. Three pedigrees of lip pits in the literature show no clefts among a significant number of affected individuals. Control of gene expression in VWS in the three target tissues appears to be independent and separately designated. Mutation rate of the VWS gene is calculated to be 1. 8 X 10 (-5).
10417279	Proteolipoprotein gene analysis in 82 patients with sporadic Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease: duplications, the major cause of the disease, originate more frequently in male germ cells, but point mutations do not. The Clinical European Network on Brain Dysmyelinating Disease.	Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease (PMD) is an X-linked developmental defect of myelination affecting the central nervous system and segregating with the proteolipoprotein (PLP) locus. Investigating 82 strictly selected sporadic cases of PMD, we found PLP mutations in 77%; complete PLP-gene duplications were the most frequent abnormality (62%), whereas point mutations in coding or splice-site regions of the gene were involved less frequently (38%). We analyzed the maternal status of 56 cases to determine the origin of both types of PLP mutation, since this is relevant to genetic counseling. In the 22 point mutations, 68% of mothers were heterozygous for the mutation, a value identical to the two-thirds of carrier mothers that would be expected if there were an equal mutation rate in male and female germ cells. In sharp contrast, among the 34 duplicated cases, 91% of mothers were carriers, a value significantly (chi2 = 9. 20, P <. 01) in favor of a male bias, with an estimation of the male/female mutation frequency (k) of 9. 3 3. Moreover, we observed the occurrence of de novo mutations between parental and grandparental generations in 17 three-generation families, which allowed a direct estimation of the k value (k = 11). Again, a significant male mutation imbalance was observed only for the duplications.
3615198	GT to AT transition at a splice donor site causes skipping of the preceding exon in phenylketonuria.	Classical Phenylketonuria (PKU) is an autosomal recessive human genetic disorder caused by a deficiency of hepatic phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH). We isolated several mutant PAH cDNA clones from a PKU carrier individual and showed that they contained an internal 116 base pair deletion, corresponding precisely to exon 12 of the human chromosomal PAH gene. The deletion causes the synthesis of a truncated protein lacking the C-terminal 52 amino acids. Gene transfer and expression studies using the mutant PAH cDNA indicated that the deletion abolishes PAH activity in the cell as a result of protein instability. To determine the molecular basis of the deletion, the mutant chromosomal PAH gene was isolated from this individual and shown to contain a GT-- greater than AT substitution at the 5 splice donor site of intron 12. Thus, the consequence of the splice donor site mutation in the human liver is the skipping of the preceding exon during RNA splicing.
10377440	X inactivation and somatic cell selection rescue female mice carrying a Piga-null mutation.	A somatic mutation in the X linked PIGA gene is responsible for the deficiency of glycosyl phosphatidylinositol (GPI) -anchored proteins on blood cells from patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. No inherited form of GPI-anchor deficiency has been described. Because conventional Piga gene knockout is associated with high embryonic lethality in chimeric mice, we used the Cre/loxP system. We generated mice in which two loxP sites flank part of Piga exon 2. After crossbreeding with female mice of the EIIa-cre strain, the floxed allele undergoes Cre-mediated recombination with high efficiency during early embryonic development. Because of X chromosome inactivation, female offspring are mosaic for cells that express or lack GPI-linked proteins. Analysis of mosaic mice showed that in heart, lung, kidney, brain, and liver, mainly wild-type Piga is active, suggesting that these tissues require GPI-linked proteins. The salient exceptions were spleen, thymus, and red blood cells, which had almost equal numbers of cells expressing the wild-type or the recombined allele, implying that GPI-linked proteins are not essential for the derivation of these tissues. PIGA (-) cells had no growth advantage, suggesting that other factors are needed for their clonal dominance in patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.
1303277	Small nuclear ribonucleoprotein polypeptide N (SNRPN), an expressed gene in the Prader-Willi syndrome critical region.	Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS) is associated with paternally derived chromosomal deletions in region 15q11-13 or with maternal disomy for chromosome 15. Therefore, loss of the expressed paternal alleles of maternally imprinted genes must be responsible for the PWS phenotype. We have mapped the gene encoding the small nuclear RNA associated polypeptide SmN (SNRPN) to human chromosome 15q12 and a processed pseudogene SNRPNP1 to chromosome region 6pter-p21. Furthermore, SNRPN was mapped to the minimal deletion interval that is critical for PWS. The fact that the mouse Snrpn gene is maternally imprinted in brain suggests that loss of the paternally derived SNRPN allele may be involved in the PWS phenotype.
10064668	Increased incidence of cancer in patients with cartilage-hair hypoplasia.	OBJECTIVE  Previous reports have suggested an increased risk of cancer among patients with cartilage-hair hypoplasia (CHH). This study was carried out to further evaluate this risk among patients with CHH and their first-degree relatives. STUDY DESIGN  One hundred twenty-two patients with CHH were identified through 2 countrywide epidemiologic surveys in 1974 and in 1986. Their parents and nonaffected siblings were identified through the Population Register Center. This cohort underwent follow-up for cancer incidence through the Finnish Cancer Registry to the end of 1995. RESULTS  A statistically significant excess risk of cancer was seen among the patients with CHH (standardized incidence ratio 6. 9, 95% confidence interval 2. 3 to 16), which was mainly attributable to non-Hodgkins lymphoma  (standardized incidence ratio 90, 95% confidence interval 18 to 264). In addition, a significant excess risk of basal cell carcinoma was seen (standardized incidence ratio 35, 95% confidence interval 7. 2 to 102). The cancer incidence among the siblings or the parents did not differ from the average cancer incidence in the Finnish population. CONCLUSIONS  This study confirms an increased risk of cancer, especially non-Hodgkins lymphoma, probably attributable to defective immunity, among patients with CHH.
10446987	The dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans-associated collagen type Ialpha1/platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) B-chain fusion gene generates a transforming protein that is processed to functional PDGF-BB.	Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (DFSP) displays chromosomal rearrangements involving chromosome 17 and 22, which fuse the collagen type Ialpha1 (COLIA1) gene to the platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) B-chain (PDGFB) gene. To characterize the functional and structural properties of the COLIA1/PDGFB fusion protein, we generated a stable NIH3T3 cell line that contained a tumor-derived chimeric gene resulting from a COIA1 intron 7-PDGFB intron 1 fusion. Expression of the fusion protein led to morphological transformation and increased growth rate of these cells. The PDGF receptor kinase inhibitor CGP57148B reversed the transformed phenotype and reduced the growth rate of COLIA1/PDGFB-expressing cells but had no effects on control cells. The presence of dimeric COLIA1/PDGFB precursors was demonstrated through PDGFB immunoprecipitations of metabolically labeled cells and also by PDGFB immunoprecipitations followed by immunoblotting with COLIA1 antibodies. Pulse-chase studies demonstrated that the COLIA1/PDGFB precursor was processed to an end product that was indistinguishable from wild-type PDGF-BB. Finally, COLIA1/PDGFB-expressing cells generated tumors after s. c c. injection into nude mice, and tumor growth was reduced by treatment with CGP57148B. We conclude that the COLIA1/PDGFB fusion associated with DFSP contributes to tumor development through ectopic production of PDGF-BB and the formation of an autocrine loop. Our findings, thus, suggest that PDGF receptors could be a target for pharmacological treatment of DFSP and giant cell fibroblastoma, e. g., through the use of PDGF receptor kinase inhibitors such as CGP57148B.
10766245	ATM phosphorylates p95/nbs1 in an S-phase checkpoint pathway.	The rare diseases ataxia-telangiectasia (AT), caused by mutations in the ATM gene, and Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS), with mutations in the p95/nbs1 gene, share a variety of phenotypic abnormalities such as chromosomal instability, radiation sensitivity and defects in cell-cycle checkpoints in response to ionizing radiation. The ATM gene encodes a protein kinase that is activated by ionizing radiation or radiomimetic drugs, whereas p95/nbs1 is part of a protein complex that is involved in responses to DNA double-strand breaks. Here, because of the similarities between AT and NBS, we evaluated the functional interactions between ATM and p95/nbs1. Activation of the ATM kinase by ionizing radiation and induction of ATM-dependent responses in NBS cells indicated that p95/nbs1 may not be required for signalling to ATM after ionizing radiation. However, p95/nbs1 was phosphorylated on serine 343 in an ATM-dependent manner in vitro and in vivo after ionizing radiation. A p95/nbs1 construct mutated at the ATM phosphorylation site abrogated an S-phase checkpoint induced by ionizing radiation in normal cells and failed to compensate for this functional deficiency in NBS cells. These observations link ATM and p95/nbs1 in a common signalling pathway and provide an explanation for phenotypic similarities in these two diseases.
8528198	Identification of WASP mutations in patients with Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome and isolated thrombocytopenia reveals allelic heterogeneity at the WAS locus.	Mutation in the gene encoding the recently isolated WASP protein has now been identified as the genetic defect responsible for the X-linked Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), a primary immunodeficiency disease associated with extensive phenotypic variability. To elucidate the range of WASP mutations responsible for WAS, we used PCR-SSCP analysis to screen for WASP gene mutation in 19 unrelated boys with the diagnosis of classical or attenuated WAS or isolated thrombocytopenia. All 19 patients had WASP mutations, each of which localized to the initial three or terminal three exons of the gene, and the majority of which were unique in each case. However, a missense mutation which results in substitution of the arginine at WAS codon 86 was identified in three boys with severe WAS as well as in one boy presenting with thrombocytopenia alone. While the three mutations found in the isolated thrombocytopenia patients leave the reading frame intact, about one-half of the gene alterations detected in both severe and attenuated WAS patients result in frameshifted transcript and premature translation termination. These findings therefore confirm the association of WAS with WASP mutation and identify WASP mutation as a cause for isolated congenital thrombocytopenia in males. While the WASP gene defects responsible for isolated thrombocytopenia and other mild presentations of WAS do not appear distinct from those resulting in severe WAS, these data indicate that analysis of WASP gene mutation provides a valuable tool for distinguishing the spectrum of WAS patients and the subset of males with isolated thrombocytopenia who represent mild cases of WAS.
7607677	Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA: common double deletion in the N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase gene (GALNS).	Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by a deficiency in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase (GALNS). We found two separate deletions of nearly 8. 0 and 6. 0 kb in the GALNS gene, including some exons. There are Alu repetitive elements near the breakpoints of the 8. 0-kb deletion, and this deletion resulted from an Alu-Alu recombination. The other 6. 0-kb deletion involved illegitimate recombinational events between incomplete short direct repeats of 8 bp at deletion breakpoints. The same rearrangement has been observed in a heteroallelic state in four unrelated patients. This is the first documentation of a common double deletion a gene that is not a member of a gene cluster.
10330430	Alpha-cardiac actin is a novel disease gene in familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	We identified the alpha-cardiac actin gene (ACTC) as a novel disease gene in a pedigree suffering from familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC). Linkage analyses excluded all the previously reported FHC loci as possible disease loci in the family studied, with lod scores varying between -2. 5 and -6. 0 0. Further linkage analyses of plausible candidate genes highly expressed in the adult human heart identified ACTC as the most likely disease gene, showing a maximal lod score of 3. 6 6. Mutation analysis of ACTC revealed an Ala295Ser mutation in exon 5 close to 2 missense mutations recently described to cause the inherited form of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC).
10943845	BRCA1 is associated with a human SWI/SNF-related complex: linking chromatin remodeling to breast cancer.	Germline mutations in the tumor suppressor gene, BRCA1, predispose individuals to breast and ovarian cancers. Using a combination of affinity- and conventional chromatographic techniques, we have isolated a predominant form of a multiprotein BRCA1-containing complex from human cells displaying chromatin-remodeling activity. Mass spectrometric sequencing of components of this complex indicated that BRCA1 is associated with a SWI/SNF-related complex. We show that BRCA1 can directly interact with the BRG1 subunit of the SWI/SNF complex. Moreover, p53-mediated stimulation of transcription by BRCA1 was completely abrogated by either a dominant-negative mutant of BRG1 or the cancer-causing deletion in exon 11 of BRCA1. These findings reveal a direct function for BRCA1 in transcriptional control through modulation of chromatin structure.
1769645	Aberrant splicing of phenylalanine hydroxylase mRNA: the major cause for phenylketonuria in parts of southern Europe.	We report a mutation within the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene that causes aberrant splicing of the mRNA and that is in tight association with chromosomal haplotypes 6, 10, and 36. Because of the high frequency of these particular haplotypes in Bulgaria, Italy, and Turkey, it appears to be one of the more frequent defects in the PAH gene causing classical phenylketonuria in this part of Europe. The mutation is a G to A transition at position 546 in intron 10 of the PAH gene, 11 bp upstream from the intron 10/exon 11 boundary. It activates a cryptic splice site and results in an in-frame insertion of 9 nucleotides between exon 10 and exon 11 of the processed mRNA. Normal amounts of liver PAH protein are present in homozygous patients, but no catalytic activity can be detected. This loss of enzyme activity is probably caused by conformational changes resulting from the insertion of three additional amino acids (Gly-Leu-Gln) between the normal sequences encoded by exon 10 and exon 11.
3480530	Deletions of a DNA sequence in retinoblastomas and mesenchymal tumors: organization of the sequence and its encoded protein.	Retinoblastoma is a childhood tumor that can arise because of mutant alleles acquired as somatic or germinal mutations. The mutant allele can be carried in the germ line. The mutations creating these alleles act by inactivating copies of a recessive oncogene located within band q14 of chromosome 13 and termed the RB1 locus. We have reported isolation of a cDNA fragment that recognizes chromosomal sequences possessing many of the attributes of the retinoblastoma gene associated with the RB1 locus. We now report that this segment is additionally the target of somatic mutations in mesenchymal tumors among patients having no apparent predisposition to retinoblastoma and no previous evidence of retinoblastoma. These tumors provide additional evidence that the cloned sequences are representative of a gene that is a frequent target of inactivation during tumorigenesis. Sequence analysis of this cDNA provides little insight into its normal functional role.
10192399	The Pendred syndrome gene encodes a chloride-iodide transport protein.	Pendred syndrome is the most common form of syndromic deafness and characterized by congenital sensorineural hearing loss and goitre. This disorder was mapped to chromosome 7 and the gene causing Pendred syndrome (PDS) was subsequently identified by positional cloning. PDS encodes a putative transmembrane protein designated pendrin. Pendrin is closely related to a family of sulfate transport proteins that includes the rat sulfate-anion transporter (encoded by Sat-1; 29% amino acid sequence identity), the human diastrophic dysplasia sulfate transporter (encoded by DTD; 32%) and the human sulfate transporter downregulated in adenoma (encoded by DRA; 45%). On the basis of this homology and the presence of a slightly modified sulfate-transporter signature sequence comprising its putative second transmembrane domain, pendrin has been proposed to function as a sulfate transporter. We were unable to detect evidence of sulfate transport following the expression of pendrin in Xenopus laevis oocytes by microinjection of PDS cRNA or in Sf9 cells following infection with PDS-recombinant baculovirus. The rates of transport for iodide and chloride were significantly increased following the expression of pendrin in both cell systems. Our results demonstrate that pendrin functions as a transporter of chloride and iodide, but not sulfate, and may provide insight into thyroid physiology and the pathophysiology of Pendred syndrome.
1937471	Hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase deficiency: analysis of HPRT mutations by direct sequencing and allele-specific amplification.	The Lesch-Nyhan syndrome is a severe X chromosome-linked human disease caused by a virtual absence of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) activity. A partial deficiency in the activity of this enzyme can result in gouty arthritis. To determine the genetic basis for reduction or loss of enzyme activity, we have amplified and sequenced the coding region of HPRT cDNA from four patients  one with Lesch-Nyhan syndrome (HPRTPerth) and three with partial deficiencies of HPRT activity, which have been designated HPRTUrangan, HPRTSwan and HPRTToowong. In all four patients, the only mutation identified was a single base substitution in exons 2 or 3 of the coding region, which in each case predicts a single amino acid substitution in the translated protein. Each base change was confirmed by allele-specific amplification of the patients genomic DNA. It is interesting to note that the mutation found for HPRTPerth is identical to that reported for HPRTFlint. It appears that the two mutations are de novo events.
3343337	Sjogren-Larsson syndrome. Impaired fatty alcohol oxidation in cultured fibroblasts due to deficient fatty alcohol:nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide oxidoreductase activity.	Lipid metabolism was studied in cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with the inherited disorder, Sjogren-Larsson syndrome (SLS). Intact SLS fibroblasts incubated in the presence of [1-14C] palmitate accumulated more radioactive hexadecanol than did normal cells, whereas incorporation of radioactivity into other cellular lipids was unaltered. The hexadecanol content of SLS fibroblasts was abnormally elevated. Hexadecanol accumulation was not due to increased fatty alcohol synthesis nor its deficient utilization for glycerol ether synthesis. The half-life of intracellular hexadecanol loaded into SLS fibroblasts was increased (70 min) compared with normal (15 min), and intact SLS fibroblasts showed impaired oxidation of [14C] -hexadecanol to fatty acid. Fatty alcohol  NAD + oxidoreductase, the enzyme catalyzing this reaction, was deficient in SLS fibroblasts. Mean total activity in SLS fibroblasts (n = 5) was 13% of that in normal fibroblasts, and palmitoyl CoA-inhibitable activity was 1% of normal. Fibroblasts from two obligate SLS heterozygotes had enzyme activities intermediate between that in normal fibroblasts and individuals with SLS. These results suggest that the primary defect in SLS is deficiency of fatty alcohol  NAD + oxidoreductase. SLS represents the first inherited disorder in man associated with an isolated abnormality in fatty alcohol metabolism.
10736265	Glycerol as a correlate of impaired glucose tolerance: dissection of a complex system by use of a simple genetic trait.	Glycerol kinase (GK) represents the primary entry of glycerol into glucose and triglyceride metabolism. Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and hypertriglyceridemia are associated with an increased risk of diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease. The relationship between glycerol and the risk of IGT, however, is poorly understood. We therefore undertook the study of fasting plasma glycerol levels in a cohort of 1, 056 unrelated men and women of French-Canadian descent. Family screening in the initial cohort identified 18 men from five families with severe hyperglycerolemia (values above 2. 0 mmol/liter) and demonstrated an X-linked pattern of inheritance. Linkage analysis of the data from 12 microsatellite markers surrounding the Xp21. 3 GK gene resulted in a peak LOD score of 3. 46, centered around marker DXS8039. In addition, since all of the families originated in a population with a proven founder effect-the Saguenay Lac-St. -Jean region of Quebec-a common disease haplotype was sought. Indeed, a six-marker haplotype extending over a region of 5. 5 cM was observed in all families. Resequencing of the GK gene in family members led to the discovery of a N288D missense mutation in exon 10, which resulted in the substitution of a highly conserved asparagine residue by a negatively charged aspartic acid.
1678319	Identification of deletion mutations and three new genes at the familial polyposis locus.	Small (100-260 kb), nested deletions were characterized in DNA from two unrelated patients with familial adenomatous polyposis coli (APC). Three candidate genes located within the deleted region were ascertained and a previous candidate gene, MCC, was shown to be located outside the deleted region. One of the new genes contained sequence identical to SRP19, the gene coding for the 19 kd component of the ribosomal signal recognition particle. The second, provisionally designated DP1 (deleted in polyposis 1), was found to be transcribed in the same orientation as MCC. Two other cDNAs, DP2 and DP3, were found to overlap, forming a single gene, DP2. 5, that is transcribed in the same orientation as SRP19.
2390095	Total deficiency of plasma cholesteryl ester transfer protein in subjects homozygous and heterozygous for the intron 14 splicing defect.	The molecular basis of cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) deficiency was investigated in 4 unrelated CETP-deficient families. The high density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels of the probands exceeded 150 mg/dl. The plasma of the probands was totally deficient in CETP activity and mass. The genomic DNA of the patients was amplified by polymerase chain reaction, using two oligonucleotide primers located in the intron 12 and 14 of the CETP gene, and the amplified products were directly sequenced. Two patients were homozygous for a G-to-A change at the 5-splice donor site of the intron 14. The G-to-A change would cause impaired splicing of pre-messenger RNA. The other two probands were heterozygous for the mutation, but totally lacked CETP. Their lipoprotein patterns were also similar to those of the two homozygotes. Thus, other genetic defects or metabolic factors influencing CETP expression are implicated. The data suggest that the G-to-A mutation may be common in human plasma CETP deficiency. Furthermore, there could be compound heterozygotes who totally lack plasma CETP and have lipoprotein profiles similar to those of homozygotes.
3876122	Heterogeneity of type I von Willebrand disease: evidence for a subgroup with an abnormal von Willebrand factor.	Type I von Willebrand disease (vWD) is characterized by equally low plasma concentrations of von Willebrand factor antigen (vWF  Ag) and ristocetin cofactor (RiCof) and by the presence of all vWF multimers in sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) -agarose gel electrophoresis. For 17 patients (13 kindreds) diagnosed with these criteria, we have studied the platelet contents of vWF  Ag and RiCof and the changes of these in plasma after DDAVP infusion. Platelet vWF  Ag and RiCof were normal in four kindreds (called " platelet normal " subgroup); following 1-deamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin; plasma vWF  Ag, RiCof and the bleeding time (BT) became normal. In six kindreds, platelet vWF  Ag and RiCof were equally low (platelet low); after DDAVP, plasma vWF  Ag and RiCof remained low, and the BT was prolonged. In three additional kindreds, platelets contained normal concentrations of vWF  Ag, but RiCof was very low (platelet discordant); even though a complete set of multimers was found in plasma and platelets, there was a relatively small amount of large multimers. After DDAVP, plasma vWF  Ag became normal, but RiCof remained low and the BT was very prolonged. These findings demonstrated that there can be an abnormal vWF (RiCof less than vWF  Ag) even in type I vWD, coexisting with a complete set of vWF multimers (platelet discordant); that the abnormal vWF can be shown more clearly in platelets than in plasma or else in plasma after DDAVP infusion; and that DDAVP normalizes the BT only in those patients with normal platelet levels of both vWF  Ag and RiCof (platelet normal).
7605382	Frequency of exon 15 missense mutation (442D:G) in cholesteryl ester transfer protein gene in hyperalphalipoproteinemic Japanese subjects.	Cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) transfers cholesteryl ester from high density lipoprotein (HDL) to apo B-containing lipoproteins. The hyperalphalipoproteinemia caused by CETP deficiency is fairly common in Japan and one of the most common mutations in the CETP gene is the splicing defect of the intron 14, the allelic frequency of which has been shown to be 0. 0049 in the Japanese general population. Recently, we have reported a missense mutation in exon 15 of the CETP gene (442D  G), showing a dominant effect on the CETP activity and HDL-cholesterol level. In the current study, we determined the frequency of this new mutation in Japanese hyperalphalipoproteinemic (HDL-cholesterol > or = 100 mg/dl) subjects. A rapid and easy screening method for this new mutation was developed using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) -mediated site-directed mutagenesis. Among 117 Japanese hyperalphalipoproteinemic subjects (HDL-cholesterol; 116. 7 +/- 16. 5 mg/dl, mean +/- S. D.) without the intron 14 splice defect, three homozygotes (2. 5%) and 34 heterozygotes (29. 1%) were found to have the 442D  G mutation. The relative allelic frequency of this mutation was calculated to be 0. 17. One of the homozygotes for the 442D  G mutation was the patient previously described by us as having hyperalphalipoproteinemia with corneal opacity and coronary heart disease. This was the first reported subject homozygous for the CETP deficiency who also demonstrated atherosclerotic symptoms. In homozygous subjects, CETP activity ranged from 37% to 62% of the normal value, which was consistent with the results obtained from the transient expression experiment previously reported; however, the specific activity of CETP was not as low as expected. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS).
10747931	Transgenic mice expressing a truncated form of the high mobility group I-C protein develop adiposity and an abnormally high prevalence of lipomas.	Chromosomal translocations in human lipomas frequently create fusion transcripts encoding high mobility group (HMG) I-C DNA-binding domains and C-terminal sequences from different presumed transcription factors, suggesting a potential role for HMG I-C in the development of lipomas. To evaluate the role of the HMG I-C component, the three DNA-binding domains of HMG I-C have now been expressed in transgenic mice. Despite the ubiquitous expression of the truncated HMG I-C protein, the transgenic mice develop a selective abundance of fat tissue early in life, show marked adipose tissue inflammation, and have an abnormally high incidence of lipomas. These findings demonstrate that the DNA-binding domains of HMG I-C, in the absence of a C-terminal fusion partner, are sufficient to perturb adipogenesis and predispose to lipomas. We provide data supporting the central utility of this animal model as a tool to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying the development of one of the most common kind of human benign tumors.
7814011	Novel mutation at the initiation codon in the Norrie disease gene in two Japanese families.	We have identified a new mutation of Norrie disease (ND) gene in two Japanese males from unrelated families; they showed typical ocular features of ND but no mental retardation or hearing impairment. A mutation was found in both patients at the initiation codon of exon 2 of the ND gene (ATG to GTG), with otherwise normal nucleotide sequences. Their mothers had the normal and mutant types of the gene, which was expected for heterozygotes of the disease. The mutation of the initiation codon would cause the failure of ND gene expression or a defect in translation thereby truncating the amino terminus of ND protein. In view of the rarity and marked heterogeneity of mutations in the ND gene, the present apparently unrelated Japanese families who have lived in the same area for over two centuries presumably share the origin of the mutation.
10213492	Dominant negative effect of the APC1309 mutation: a possible explanation for genotype-phenotype correlations in familial adenomatous polyposis.	Inactivation of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene product initiates colorectal tumorigenesis. Patients with familial APC (FAP) carry germ-line mutations in the APC gene and develop multiple colorectal adenomas and subsequent carcinomas early in life. The severity of the disease correlates with the position of the inherited APC mutation (genotype-phenotype correlation). Together with the fact that both germ-line and sporadic APC mutations cluster in the central region of the APC gene, this points to a dominant negative effect of certain APC mutants. Loss of APC function was recently shown to result in enhanced beta-catenin-/Tcf-mediated transcription in colon epithelial cells. Here, we provide experimental evidence for a dominant negative effect of APC gene products associated with severe polyposis. Wild-type APC activity in beta-catenin-/Tcf-mediated transcription was strongly inhibited by a mutant APC that is truncated at codon 1309. In contrast, mutant APC gene products that are associated with attenuated polyposis (codon 386 or 1465) interfered only weakly with wild-type APC activity. These results suggest a molecular explanation for the genotype-phenotype correlation in FAP patients and support the idea that colorectal tumor growth might be, in part, driven by selection for a mutation in the mutation cluster region.
1717985	Mutation of the KIT (mast/stem cell growth factor receptor) protooncogene in human piebaldism.	Piebaldism is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by cogenital patches of skin and hair from which melanocytes are completely absent. A similar disorder of mouse, dominant white spotting (W), results from mutations of the c-Kit protooncogene, which encodes and receptor for mast/stem cell growth factor. We identified a KIT gene mutation in a proband with classic autosomal dominant piebaldism. This mutation results in a Gly----Arg substitution at codon 664, within the tyrosine kinase domain. This substitution was not seen in any normal individuals and was completely linked to the piebald phenotype in the probands family. Piebaldism in this family thus appears to be the human homologue to dominant white spotting (W) of the mouse.
7717396	Mutations in the gene for X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy in patients with different clinical phenotypes.	Recently, the gene for the most common peroxisomal disorder, X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy (X-ALD), has been described encoding a peroxisomal membrane transporter protein. We analyzed the entire protein-coding sequence of this gene by reverse-transcription PCR, SSCP, and DNA sequencing in five patients with different clinical expression of X-ALD and in their female relatives; these clinical expressions were cerebral childhood ALD, adrenomyeloneuropathy (AMN), and " Addison disease only " (ADO) phenotype. In the three patients exhibiting the classical picture of severe childhood ALD we identified in the 5 portion of the X-ALD gene a 38-bp deletion that causes a frameshift mutation, a 3-bp deletion leading to a deletion of an amino acid in the ATP-binding domain of the ALD protein, and a missense mutation. In the patient with the clinical phenotype of AMN, a nonsense mutation in codon 212, along with a second site mutation at codon 178, was observed. Analysis of the patient with the ADO phenotype revealed a further missense mutation at a highly conserved position in the ALDP/PMP70 comparison. The disruptive nature of two mutations (i. e., the frameshift and the nonsense mutation) in patients with biochemically proved childhood ALD and AMN further strongly supports the hypothesis that alterations in this gene play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of X-ALD. Since the current biochemical techniques for X-ALD carrier detection in affected families lack sufficient reliability, our procedure described for systematic mutation scanning is also capable of improving genetic counseling and prenatal diagnosis.
10447258	Identification of a common PEX1 mutation in Zellweger syndrome.	The Zellweger spectrum of disease, encompassing Zellweger syndrome and the progressively milder phenotypes of neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy and infantile Refsum disease, is due to a failure to form functional peroxisomes. Cell fusion complementation studies demonstrated that these diseases are genetically heterogeneous, with two-thirds of all patients lying within a single complementation group, CG1. Molecular genetic and cell biology studies have shown that PEX1 is deficient in many CG1 patients. However, previous studies have focused on mildly affected patients and there is still no report of two mutant PEX1 alleles in any Zellweger syndrome patient. Furthermore, mutations in the PMP70 gene have also been identified in two Zellweger syndrome patients from CG1, raising the possibility that CG1 patients may represent a mixture of PEX1-deficient and PMP70-deficient individuals. To address the molecular basis of disease in Zellweger syndrome patients from CG1, we examined all 24 PEX1 exons in four patients, including both patients that have mutations in PMP70. PEX1 mutations were detected in all four patients, including a 1-bp insertion (c. 2097insT) in exon 13 that was present in three of the four patients. Subsequent studies demonstrated that this mutation is present in one-half of all CG1 patients and correlates with the Zellweger syndrome phenotype. As this mutation leads to a loss of protein function its frequency makes it the most common cause of Zellweger syndrome, helping to explain the high percentage of patients that belong to CG1.
10888879	Restoration of photoreceptor ultrastructure and function in retinal degeneration slow mice by gene therapy.	The gene Prph2 encodes a photoreceptor-specific membrane glycoprotein, peripherin-2 (also known as peripherin/rds), which is inserted into the rims of photoreceptor outer segment discs in a complex with rom-1 (ref. 2). The complex is necessary for the stabilization of the discs, which are renewed constantly throughout life, and which contain the visual pigments necessary for photon capture. Mutations in Prph2 have been shown to result in a variety of photoreceptor dystrophies, including autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa and macular dystrophy. A common feature of these diseases is the loss of photoreceptor function, also seen in the retinal degeneration slow (rds or Prph2 Rd2/Rd2) mouse, which is homozygous for a null mutation in Prph2. It is characterized by a complete failure to develop photoreceptor discs and outer segments, downregulation of rhodopsin and apoptotic loss of photoreceptor cells. The electroretinograms (ERGs) of Prph2Rd2/Rd2 mice have greatly diminished a-wave and b-wave amplitudes, which decline to virtually undetectable concentrations by two months. Subretinal injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) encoding a Prph2 transgene results in stable generation of outer segment structures and formation of new stacks of discs containing both perpherin-2 and rhodopsin, which in many cases are morphologically similar to normal outer segments. Moreover, the re-establishment of the structural integrity of the photoreceptor layer also results in electrophysiological correction. These studies demonstrate for the first time that a complex ultrastructural cell defect can be corrected both morphologically and functionally by in vivo gene transfer.
10612394	The DNA double-strand break repair gene hMRE11 is mutated in individuals with an ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder.	We show that hypomorphic mutations in hMRE11, but not in ATM, are present in certain individuals with an ataxia-telangiectasia-like disorder (ATLD). The cellular features resulting from these hMRE11 mutations are similar to those seen in A-T as well as NBS and include hypersensitivity to ionizing radiation, radioresistant DNA synthesis, and abrogation of ATM-dependent events, such as the activation of Jun kinase following exposure to gamma irradiation. Although the mutant hMre11 proteins retain some ability to interact with hRad50 and Nbs1, formation of ionizing radiation-induced hMre11 and Nbs1 foci was absent in hMRE11 mutant cells. These data demonstrate that ATM and the hMre11/hRad50/Nbs1 protein complex act in the same DNA damage response pathway and link hMre11 to the complex pathology of A-T.
10724160	Autoinhibition and activation mechanisms of the Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein.	The Rho-family GTPase, Cdc42, can regulate the actin cytoskeleton through activation of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) family members. Activation relieves an autoinhibitory contact between the GTPase-binding domain and the carboxy-terminal region of WASP proteins. Here we report the autoinhibited structure of the GTPase-binding domain of WASP, which can be induced by the C-terminal region or by organic co-solvents. In the autoinhibited complex, intramolecular interactions with the GTPase-binding domain occlude residues of the C terminus that regulate the Arp2/3 actin-nucleating complex. Binding of Cdc42 to the GTPase-binding domain causes a dramatic conformational change, resulting in disruption of the hydrophobic core and release of the C terminus, enabling its interaction with the actin regulatory machinery. These data show that intrinsically unstructured peptides such as the GTPase-binding domain of WASP can be induced into distinct structural and functional states depending on context.
7479827	Molecular basis of human mitochondrial very-long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency causing cardiomyopathy and sudden death in childhood.	beta-Oxidation of long-chain fatty acids provides the major source of energy in the heart. Defects in enzymes of the beta-oxidation pathway cause sudden, unexplained death in childhood, acute hepatic encephalopathy or liver failure, skeletal myopathy, and cardiomyopathy. Very-long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase [VLCAD; very-long-chain-acyl-CoA  (acceptor) 2, 3-oxidoreductase, EC 1. 3 3. 99 99. 13] catalyzes the first step in beta-oxidation. We have isolated the human VLCAD cDNA and gene and determined the complete nucleotide sequences. Polymerase chain reaction amplification of VLCAD mRNA and genomic exons defined the molecular defects in two patients with VLCAD deficiency who presented with unexplained cardiac arrest and cardiomyopathy. In one, a homozygous mutation in the consensus dinucleotide of the donor splice site (g + 1-- > a) was associated with universal skipping of the prior exon (exon 11). The second patient was a compound heterozygote, with a missense mutation, C1837-- > T, changing the arginine at residue 613 to tryptophan on one allele and a single base deletion at the intron-exon 6 boundary as the second mutation. This initial delineation of human mutations in VLCAD suggests that VLCAD deficiency reduces myocardial fatty acid beta-oxidation and energy production and is associated with cardiomyopathy and sudden death in childhood.
1577476	An error in dystrophin mRNA processing in golden retriever muscular dystrophy, an animal homologue of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.	Golden retriever muscular dystrophy (GRMD) is a spontaneous, X-linked, progressively fatal disease of dogs and is also a homologue of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Two-thirds of DMD patients carry detectable deletions in their dystrophin gene. The defect underlying the remaining one-third of DMD patients is undetermined. Analysis of the canine dystrophin gene in normal and GRMD dogs has failed to demonstrate any detectable loss of exons. Here, we have demonstrated a RNA processing error in GRMD that results from a single base change in the 3 consensus splice site of intron 6. The seventh exon is then skipped, which predicts a termination of the dystrophin reading frame within its N-terminal domain in exon 8. This is the first example of dystrophin deficiency caused by a splice-site mutation.
8198128	Recombinations in individuals homozygous by descent localize the Friedreich ataxia locus in a cloned 450-kb interval.	The locus for Friedreich ataxia (FRDA), a severe neurodegenerative disease, is tightly linked to markers D9S5 and D9S15, and analysis of rare recombination events has suggested the order cen-FRDA-D9S5-D9S15-qter. We report here the construction of a YAC contig extending 800 kb centromeric to D9S5 and the isolation of five new microsatellite markers from this region. In order to map these markers with respect to the FRDA locus, all within a 1-cM confidence interval, we sought to increase the genetic information of available FRDA families by considering homozygosity by descent and association with founder haplotypes in isolated populations. This approach allowed us to identify one phase-known recombination and one probable historic recombination on haplotypes from Reunion Island patients, both of which place three of the five markers proximal to FRDA. This represents the first identification of close FRDA flanking markers on the centromeric side. The two other markers allowed us to narrow the breakpoint of a previously identified distal recombination that is > 180 kb from D9S5 (26P). Taken together, the results place the FRDA locus in a 450-kb interval, which is small enough for direct search of candidate genes. A detailed rare cutter restriction map and a cosmid contig covering this interval were constructed and should facilitate the search of genes in this region.
1302008	Germline intronic and exonic mutations in the Wilms' tumour gene (WT1) affecting urogenital development.	Denys-Drash syndrome is a rare human developmental disorder affecting the urogenital system and leading to renal failure, intersex disorders and Wilms tumour. In this report, four individuals with this syndrome are described carrying germline point mutations in the Wilms tumour suppressor gene, WT1. Three of these mutations were in the zinc finger domains of WT1. The fourth occurred within intron 9, preventing splicing at one of the alternatively chosen splice donor sites of exon 9 when assayed in vitro. These results provide genetic evidence for distinct functional roles of the WT1 isoforms in urogenital development.
3014348	Analysis of deletions in DNA from patients with Becker and Duchenne muscular dystrophy.	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked recessive genetic disorder for which the biochemical defect is as yet unknown. Recently, two cloned segments of human X-chromosome DNA have been described which detect structural alterations within or near the genetic locus responsible for the disorder. Both of these cloned segments were described as tightly linked to the locus and were capable of detecting deletions in the DNA of boys affected with DMD. In an attempt to determine more precisely the occurrence of these deletions within a large population of DMD patients and the accuracy of one of the segments, DXS164 (pERT87), in determining the inheritance of the DMD X chromosome, the subclones 1, 8 and 15 were made available to many investigators throughout the world. Here we describe the combined results of more than 20 research laboratories with respect to the occurrence of deletions at the DXS164 locus in DNA samples isolated from patients with DMD and Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD). The results indicate that the DXS164 locus apparently recombines with DMD 5% of the time, but is probably located between independent sites of mutation which yield DMD. The breakpoints of some deletions are delineated within the DXS164 locus, and it is evident that the deletions at the DMD locus are frequent and extremely large.
511159	Incidence and characteristics of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase variants in Japan.	A total of 3000 men living in Yamaguchi were screened for glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency using Beutlers spot test and three types of starch gel electrophoresis. These electrophoresis used a phosphate buffer system at pH 7. 0, a TRIS-EDTA-borate buffer system at pH 8. 6, and a TRIS-hydrochloride buffer system at pH 8.. Fifteen G6PD-deficient variants were found at the rate of 0. 5% and classified into four groups. As new variants, G6PD Konan, Kamiube, and Kiwa were identified. These three variants had a mild to moderate G6PD deficiency and were not associated with any clinical signs. G6PD Konan had fast electrophoretic mobility as compared with normal levels, G6PD Kiwa had slightly elevated electrophoretic mobility, and G6PD Kamiube had normal electrophoretic mobility. These three variants had normal levels of Km G6P, Km NADP, and Ki NADPH, normal utilizations of both 2-deoxy-G6P and deamino-NAPD, normal heat stability, and a normal pH curve. The other variant was G6PD Ube, which we had previously found in Yamaguchi (Nakashima et al., 1977). One boy with G6PD Ube was Korean.
8563759	Brca1 deficiency results in early embryonic lethality characterized by neuroepithelial abnormalities.	The breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility gene, BRCA1, has been cloned and shown to encode a zinc-finger protein of unknown function. Mutations in BRCA1 account for at least 80% of families with both breast and ovarian cancer, as well as some non-familial sporadic ovarian cancers. The loss of wild-type BRCA1 in tumours of individuals carrying one nonfunctional BRCA1 allele suggests that BRCA1 encodes a tumour suppressor that may inhibit the proliferation of mammary epithelial cells. To examine the role of BRCA1 in normal tissue growth and differentiation, and to generate a potential model for the cancer susceptibility associated with loss of BRCA1 function, we have created a mouse line carrying a mutation in one Brca1 allele. Analysis of mice homozygous for the mutant allele indicate that Brca1 is critical for normal development, as these mice died in utero between 10 and 13 days of gestation (E10-E13). Abnormalities in Brca1-deficient embryos were most evident in the neural tube, with 40% of the embryos presenting with varying degrees of spina bifida and anencephaly. In addition, the neuroepithelium in Brca1-deficient embryos appeared disorganized, with signs of both rapid proliferation and excessive cell death.
6387532	Bone marrow transplant in adrenoleukodystrophy.	An allogeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT) from a normal HLA identical sibling donor was performed in a 13-year-old boy with rapidly progressive adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD). Engraftment and complete hematologic recovery occurred within 4 weeks, but neurologic deterioration continued. The patient died of an adenovirus infection 141 days after BMT. ALD is characterized by abnormally high plasma levels of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA) as a result of impaired capacity to degrade them. Ten days after BMT, the white blood cell VLCFA levels and enzyme activity became normal; after 3 months, there was progressive reduction of plasma VLCFA to levels only slightly above normal.
10716718	Abnormal development of Purkinje cells and lymphocytes in Atm mutant mice.	Motor incoordination, immune deficiencies, and an increased risk of cancer are the characteristic features of the hereditary disease ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), which is caused by mutations in the ATM gene. Through gene targeting, we have generated a line of Atm mutant mice, Atm (y/y) mice. In contrast to other Atm mutant mice, Atm (y/y) mice show a lower incidence of thymic lymphoma and survive beyond a few months of age. Atm (y/y) mice exhibit deficits in motor learning indicative of cerebellar dysfunction. Even though we found no gross cerebellar degeneration in older Atm (y/y) animals, ectopic and abnormally differentiated Purkinje cells were apparent in mutant mice of all ages. These findings establish that some neuropathological abnormalities seen in A-T patients also are present in Atm mutant mice. In addition, we report a previously unrecognized effect of Atm deficiency on development or maintenance of CD4 (+) 8 (+) thymocytes. We discuss these findings in the context of the hypothesis that abnormal development of Purkinje cells and lymphocytes contributes to the pathogenesis of A-T.
2253937	Detection of 98% of DMD/BMD gene deletions by polymerase chain reaction.	We describe oligonucleotide primer sequences that can be used to amplify eight exons plus the muscle promoter of the dystrophin gene in a single multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR). When used in conjunction with an existing primer set, these two multiplex reactions detect about 98% of deletions in patients with Duchenne or Becker muscular dystrophy (DMD, BMD). Furthermore, these primers amplify most of the exons in the deletion prone " hot spot " region around exons 44 to 53, allowing determination of deletion endpoints and prediction of mutational effects on the translational reading frame. Thus, use of these PCR-based assays will allow deletion detection and prenatal diagnosis for most DMD/BMD patients in a fraction of the time required for Southern blot analysis.
1673289	A detailed multipoint map of human chromosome 4 provides evidence for linkage heterogeneity and position-specific recombination rates.	Utilizing the CEPH reference panel and genotypic data for 53 markers, we have constructed a 20-locus multipoint genetic map of human chromosome 4. New RFLPs are reported for four loci. The map integrates a high-resolution genetic map of 4p16 into a continuous map extending to 4q31 and an unlinked cluster of three loci at 4q35. The 20 linked markers form a continuous linkage group of 152 cM in males and 202 cM in females. Likely genetic locations are provided for 25 polymorphic anonymous sequences and 28 gene-specific RFLPs. The map was constructed employing the LINKAGE and CRIMAP computational methodologies to build the multipoint map via a stepwise algorithm. A detailed 10-point map of the 4p16 region constructed from the CEPH panel provides evidence for heterogeneity in the linkage maps constructed from families segregating for Huntington disease (HD). It additionally provides evidence for position-specific recombination frequencies in the telomeric region of 4p.
10364525	In Swedish families with hereditary prostate cancer, linkage to the HPC1 locus on chromosome 1q24-25 is restricted to families with early-onset prostate cancer.	Prostate cancer clusters in some families, and an estimated 5% -10% of all cases are estimated to result from inheritance of prostate cancer-susceptibility genes. We previously reported evidence of linkage to the 1q24-25 region (HPC1) in 91 North American and Swedish families each with multiple cases of prostate cancer (Smith et al. 1996). In the present report we analyze 40 (12 original and 28 newly identified) Swedish families with hereditary prostate cancer (HPC) that, on the basis of 40 markers spanning a 25-cM interval within 1q24-25, have evidence of linkage. In the complete set of families, a maximum two-point LOD score of 1. 10 was observed at D1S413 (at a recombination fraction [theta] of. 1), with a maximum NPL (nonparametric linkage) Z score of 1. 64 at D1S202 (P =. 05). The evidence of linkage to this region originated almost exclusively from the subset of 12 early-onset (age < 65 years) families, which yielded a maximum LOD score of 2. 38 at D1S413 (straight theta = 0) and an NPL Z score of 1. 95 at D1S422 (P =. 03). Estimates from heterogeneity tests suggest that, within Sweden, as many as 50% of early-onset families had evidence of linkage to the HPC1 region. These results are consistent with the hypothesis of linkage to HPC1 in a subset of families with prostate cancer, particularly those with an early age at diagnosis.
